---
title: "Housing (Gaeltacht)(Amendment) Act , 1949"
identifier: "IE-1949-act-4"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1949-03-09"
last_updated: "1949-03-09"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1949/act/4"
title_ga: "Acht na dTithe (Gaeltacht)(Leasú), 1949"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1949/4"
---
# Housing (Gaeltacht)(Amendment) Act , 1949

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act—

the expression “the Act of 1929” means the Housing (Gaeltacht) Act, 1929 (No. 41 of 1929);

references to grants and loans are to grants and loans under the Act of 1929.

(2) The Housing (Gaeltacht) Acts, 1929 and 1934, and this Act shall be construed as one.

##### 2 Increase of aggregate amount of grants and loans.

**2.**—The aggregate amount of grants and loans shall not exceed nine hundred thousand pounds.

##### 3 Limitations on the amounts of grants.

**3.**—(1) The amount of an individual grant towards any erection, improvement or extension commenced on or after the 1st day of November, 1947, shall not exceed—

(*a*) in the case of a building grant—the appropriate sum specified in the First Schedule to this Act,

(*b*) in the case of an improving grant—eighty pounds.

(2) The amount of an individual grant towards the erection of a dwelling-house commenced on or after the 1st day of November, 1945, but not occupied on or before the 1st day of November, 1947, shall not exceed the appropriate sum specified in the Second Schedule to this Act.

(3) Where—

(*a*) an application for an individual grant towards the improvement or extension of a dwelling-house was made before the 1st day of November, 1947, and

(*b*) the improvement or extension was commenced but not completed before that date,

the amount of the grant shall not exceed sixty pounds.

(4) The limitations imposed by subsection (2) of section 11 of the Act of 1929 and subsection (1) of section 3 of the Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1934 (No. 29 of 1934), on the amounts of grants shall not apply in any case to which this section applies.

##### 4 Limitations on the amounts of loans.

**4.**—A loan towards the erection of a new dwelling-house shall not exceed one hundred pounds and a loan towards the improvement or extension of a dwelling-house shall not exceed forty pounds.

##### 5 Cessation of grants for poultry-houses and piggeries.

**5.**—After the passing of this Act, no further grants shall be sanctioned under section 4 or section 5 of the Act of 1929.

##### 6 Repeals.

**6.**—The enactments mentioned in the second column of the Third Schedule to this Act are hereby repealed to the extent specified in the third column of that Schedule.

##### 7 Short title and collective citation.

**7.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1949.

(2) The Housing (Gaeltacht) Acts, 1929 and 1934, and this Act may be cited together as the Housing (Gaeltacht) Acts, 1929 to 1949.

## FIRST SCHEDULE. Grants in Respect of Dwelling-houses the Erection of which Commenced on or after 1st November, 1947.

| Person to whom grant may be made | Where sewerage and piped water supply are not available |  |  | Where sewerage and piped water supply are available |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Number of rooms in house |  |  | Number of rooms in house |  |  |  |
| 3 | 4 | 5 or more | 3 | 4 | 5 or more |  |
| Person erecting house for own occupation | £ | £ | £ | £ | £ | £ |
| 150 | 200 | 250 | 200 | 250 | 300 |  |

## SECOND SCHEDULE. Grants in Respect of Dwelling-houses the Erection of which Commenced on or after 1st November, 1945, but which were not Occupied on or before 1st November, 1947.

| Person to whom grant may be made | Where sewerage and piped water supply are not available |  |  | Where sewerage and piped water supply are available |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Number of rooms in house |  |  | Number of rooms in house |  |  |  |
| 3 | 4 | 5 or more | 3 | 4 | 5 or more |  |
| Person erecting house for own occupation | £ | £ | £ | £ | £ | £ |
| 150 | 140 | 175 | 140 | 175 | 210 |  |

## THIRD SCHEDULE. Enactments Repealed.

| Number and Year | Short Title | Extent of Repeal |
| --- | --- | --- |
| No. 41 of 1929. | Housing (Gaeltacht) Act, 1929. | Subsections (2) and (3) of section 7. |
| No. 29 of 1934. | Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1934. | Subsection (2) of section 3. |
| No. 34 of 1939. | Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1939. | The whole Act. |
