---
title: "European Communities (Amendment) Act , 1986"
identifier: "IE-1986-act-37"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1986-12-23"
last_updated: "1986-12-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1986/act/37"
title_ga: "Acht na gComhphobal Eorpach (Leasú), 1986"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1986/37"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# European Communities (Amendment) Act , 1986

##### 1 Amendment of European Communities Act, 1972.

**1.**—The European Communities Act, 1972, is hereby amended by the insertion, in the definition of “the treaties governing the European Communities” in section 1 (1) after paragraph (*n*) (inserted by the European Communities (Amendment) (No. 2) Act, 1985), of the following paragraph:

“and

(*o*) the following provisions of the Single European Act (done at Luxembourg on the 17th day of February, 1986, and at The Hague on the 28th day of February, 1986), namely, Article 3.1; Title II; Articles 31 and 32; and, in so far as they relate to the said Article 3.1, the said Title II and the said Articles 31 and 32, Articles 33 and 34.”.

##### 2 Construction of references to Assembly of European Communities.

**2.**—References to the Assembly of the European Communities in any Act passed or statutory instrument made before the commencement of this Act shall be construed as references to the European Parliament.

##### 3 Short title, collective citation, construction and commencement.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the European Communities (Amendment) Act, 1986.

(2) The European Communities Acts, 1972 to 1985, and this Act may be cited together as the European Communities Acts, 1972 to 1986, and shall be construed together as one Act.

(3) This Act shall come into operation on such date as the Minister for Foreign Affairs appoints by order.
