---
title: "Trade Union Act , 1947"
identifier: "IE-1947-act-17"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1947-07-09"
last_updated: "1947-07-09"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1947/act/17"
title_ga: "An tAcht Ceardchumann, 1947"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1947/17"
---
# Trade Union Act , 1947

##### 1 Definitions.

**1**.—In this Act—

the expression “the Act of 1941” means the Trade Union Act, 1941 (No. 22 of 1941);

the expression “the Minister” means the Minister for Industry and Commerce.

##### 2 Variation of Schedule to Act of 1941.

**2**.—(1) Where, during the period of twelve months commencing on the passing of this Act, the Minister is satisfied that, as regards any particular trade union registered under the Trade Union Acts, 1871 to 1942, it would cause undue hardship if such trade union were compelled to make and keep with the High Court the full deposit specified by section 7 of the Act of 1941, the Minister may by order declare that every sum of money mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1941 shall, as regards such trade union, be deemed to be reduced to such extent not exceeding seventy-five per cent, as the Minister thinks proper.

(2) An order under subsection (1) of this section shall have effect in accordance with its terms for the period specified in that behalf therein, save that no such order shall have effect after the expiration of the period of twelve months commencing on the passing of this Act.

(3) The Minister may by order, made after six months' notice of the making thereof has been given to the trade union concerned, revoke any order previously made by him under subsection (1) of this section.

##### 3 Repeal of section 8 of Act of 1941 and continuance of orders.

**3.—**(1) Section 8 of the Act of 1941 is hereby repealed.

(2) Where an order under subsection (1) of section 8 of the Act of 1941 was in force immediately before the passing of this Act—

(*a*) the order shall continue to be in force, and

(*b*) the provisions of section 2 of this Act shall apply to the order as if it were an order under subsection (1) of that section.

##### 4 Short title, and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Trade Union Act, 1947.

(2) This Act and the Trade Union Acts, 1871 to 1942, may be cited together as the Trade Union Acts, 1871 to 1947.
