---
title: "Railways (Directorate) Act , 1924"
identifier: "IE-1924-act-61"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1924-12-27"
last_updated: "1924-12-27"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1924/act/61"
title_ga: "Acht na mBóthar Iarainn (Lucht Stiúrtha), 1924"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1924/61"
---
# Railways (Directorate) Act , 1924

##### 1 Nomination of Director of Amalgamated Company by London Midland and Scottish Railway Company.

**1.**—So long as the continuance of the concessions, allowances, and advantages, including special proportions in division of receipts from through passenger and perishable or other traffic passing to, from, or over the railways belonging to, leased, or worked by the Dublin and South Eastern Railway Company or any part thereof, hitherto allowed or granted to the Dublin and South Eastern Railway Company by the London Midland and Scottish Railway Company is provided for by agreement binding on the Amalgamated Company and the London Midland and Scottish Railway Company, the London Midland and Scottish Railway Company shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Railways Act, 1924, or in any amalgamation scheme thereunder, be entitled to nominate a director of the amalgamated company who shall be in addition to and not in substitution for the directors or any of them to be appointed under the provisions of the Railways Act, 1924.

##### 2 Time for nomination.

**2.**—The nomination of a director by the London Midland and Scottish Railway Company under section 1 of this Act may be made at any time after the formation of the Amalgamated Company and the director so nominated shall exercise the same rights and authority as any other director of the Amalgamated Company.

##### 3 Withdrawal of nomination.

**3.**—The London Midland and Scottish Railway Company may at any time and from time to time withdraw its nomination of any person to be a director of the Amalgamated Company and may nominate some other person in his stead.

##### 4 Short title and construction.

**4.**—This Act may be cited as the Railways (Directorate) Act, 1924, and shall be construed as one with the Railways Act, 1924.
