---
title: "Teachers' Superannuation (Amendment) Act , 1990"
identifier: "IE-1990-act-28"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1990-12-04"
last_updated: "1990-12-04"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1990/act/28"
title_ga: "Acht Aoisliúntas na Múinteoirí (Leasú), 1990"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1990/28"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Teachers' Superannuation (Amendment) Act , 1990

##### 1 Definition.

**1.**—In this Act, “the Principal Act” means the Teachers' Superannuation Act, 1928.

##### 2 Amendments to Principal Act.

**2.**—(1) Section 2 of the Principal Act is hereby amended—

(*a*) by the deletion in subsection (1) of “(subject to confirmation thereof under this Act)”; and

(*b*) by the deletion in subsection (2) of “(subject as aforesaid)”.

(2) The following sections are hereby substituted for sections 5 and 6 of the Principal Act:

“Revocation and amendment of superannuation scheme.

5.—A superannuation scheme may be revoked or amended by a subsequent superannuation scheme made in the like manner as the original scheme.

Annulment of superannuation scheme.

6.—Every superannuation scheme made under this Act (including a subsequent superannuation scheme revoking or amending a previous scheme) shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made and, if a resolution annulling the scheme is passed by either such House within the next twenty-one days on which that House has sat after the scheme is laid before it, the scheme shall be annulled accordingly but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.”.

##### 3 Short title and collective citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Teachers' Superannuation (Amendment) Act, 1990.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Teachers' Superannuation Acts, 1928 and 1990.
