---
title: "Economic and Monetary Union Act  1998"
identifier: "IE-1998-act-38"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1998-07-13"
last_updated: "1998-07-13"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1998/act/38"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Aontas Eacnamaíoch agus Airgeadaíochta, 1998"
long_title_ga: "Acht do dhéanamh socrú i ndáil leis an euro a thabhairt isteach, do dhéanamh socrú maidir le dearadh, eisiúint agus díol monaíochta dlíthairgthe comórtha agus do dhéanamh socrú i dtaobh nithe gaolmhara"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1998/38"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Economic and Monetary Union Act  1998

## PART I Preliminary and General

##### 1 Short title and commencement.

**1.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Economic and Monetary Union Act, 1998.

(2) *Part II* shall come into operation on such day or days as the Minister may appoint by order or orders, either generally or with reference to any particular purpose or provision, and different days may be so appointed for different purposes or different provisions of this Act.

##### 2 Interpretation (generally).

**2.**—(1) In this Act “the Minister” means the Minister for Finance.

(2) In this Act—

(*a*) a reference to a Part or section is to a Part or section of this Act, unless it is indicated that reference to some other enactment is intended, and

(*b*) a reference to a subsection, paragraph or subparagraph is a reference to a subsection, paragraph or subparagraph of the provision in which the reference occurs unless it is indicated that a reference to some other provision is intended.

##### 3 Expenses.

**3.**—The expenses incurred by the Minister in the administration of this Act shall, to such extent as may be sanctioned by the Minister, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas except where otherwise provided for in this Act.

##### 4 Laying of regulations and orders.

**4.**—Every regulation and order made under this Act (other than an order under *section 1(2), 9* or *15*) shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made and, if a resolution annulling the regulation or order is passed by either such House within the next 21 days on which that House has sat after the regulation or order is laid before it, the regulation or order shall be annulled accordingly, but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.

## PART II Economic and Monetary Union

### Chapter I *General*

##### 5 Interpretation (*Part II*).

**5.**—(1) In this Part—

“the Act of 1969” means the Decimal Currency Act, 1969;

“conversion rate” means the irrevocably fixed conversion rate adopted for the currency of each participating Member State by the Council according to the first sentence of Article 109 1 (4) of the Treaty;

“the Council Regulation of 1998” means Council Regulation (EC) No 974/98 of 3 May 1998 on the introduction of the euro[^(1)];

“euro unit” means the currency unit referred to in the second sentence of Article 2 of the Council Regulation of 1998;

“the Irish pound unit” means the unit of the Irish pound as duly defined on the 31st day of December, 1998;

“participating Member States” means Belgium, Germany, Spain, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Austria, Portugal and Finland;

“transitional period” means the period beginning on the 1st day of January, 1999, and ending on the 31st day of December, 2001;

“the Treaty” means the Treaty Establishing the European Community done at Rome on the 25th day of March, 1957 (as amended by the Treaty on European Union done at Maastricht on the 7th day of February, 1992).

(2) A word or expression which is used in this Act and is also used in the Council Regulation of 1998 has, unless the context otherwise requires, the same meaning in this Act as it has in that Regulation.

### Chapter II *Euro Currency System*

##### 6 Introduction of euro currency system.

**6.**—(1) The Central Bank Act, 1989, is hereby amended by the substitution for section 24 (as amended by section 13 of the Central Bank Act, 1998) of the following:

“24.—By virtue of Council Regulation (EC) No 974/98 of 3 May 1998 on the introduction of the euro, from the 1st day of January, 1999—

(*a*) the currency of the State is the euro, and

(*b*) the Irish pound unit (within the meaning of the *Economic and Monetary Union Act, 1998*) is a subdivision of the euro.”

(2) The Act of 1969 is hereby amended in section 2 by the substitution of the following for subsection (2):

“(2) The Irish pound and the penny shall be legal denominations or units of money in Irish currency.”.

##### 7 Contracts during transitional period.

**7.**—During the transitional period and notwithstanding section 25 of the Central Bank Act, 1989, contracts may, by virtue of Article 8 of the Council Regulation of 1998, be made, entered into, done and executed in the euro unit notwithstanding the fact that notes and coins denominated in euro or in cent are not in circulation.

### Chapter III *Legal Tender and Legal Tender Amounts*

##### 8 Definition (*Chapter III*)

**8.**—In this Chapter “earlier operative date” has the meaning assigned by *section 9*.

##### 9 Legal tender status of notes and coins denominated in Irish pounds.

**9.**—(1) Notes and coins denominated in Irish pounds or multiples or subdivisions thereof shall retain legal tender status until the 30th day of June, 2002, or such earlier date (in this Chapter referred to as the “earlier operative date”) as the Minister may specify by order.

(2) The Minister may by order amend or revoke an order under this section before the earlier operative date.

(3) Where it is proposed to make an order under this section, including any order amending or revoking an order to which *subsection (1)* relates, a draft of the order shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas and the order shall not be made until a resolution approving of the draft has been passed by each such House.

(4) Section 118(3) of the Central Bank Act, 1989, is hereby repealed with effect from the earlier operative date or, where there is no such date, the 30th day of June, 2002.

##### 10 Legal tender amounts of coins.

**10.**—(1) No person, other than the Central Bank of Ireland and such persons as may be designated by the Minister by order, shall be obliged to accept more than 50 coins denominated in euro or in cent in any single transaction.

(2) The following provisions are hereby repealed with effect from the earlier operative date or, where there is no such date, the 30th day of June, 2002:

(*a*) sections 8 to 10 of the Act of 1969,

(*b*) section 15 of the Decimal Currency Act, 1970.

(3) The Minister may by order amend or revoke an order under this section.

##### 11 Provision and issuance of coins.

**11.**—(1) The Minister may provide coins denominated in euro or in cent and may set out by order the technical specifications, dimensions, composition and design or designs of such coins subject to such specifications complying with the denominations and technical specifications which the Council lays down in accordance with the second sentence of Article 105a(2) of the Treaty.

(2) Coins provided under *subsection (1)* shall be issued by the Minister through the Central Bank of Ireland, subject to approval by the European Central Bank of the volume of the issue and, with effect from the commencement of this provision, coins issued under *Part III* shall be subject to such approval.

(3) Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Act of 1969 are hereby repealed with effect from the earlier operative date or, where there is no such date, the 30th day of June, 2002.

(4) The Minister may by order amend or revoke an order under this section.

##### 12 Amendment of section 14 (prohibition of making or issuing of coins) of Act of 1969.

**12.**—Section 14 of the Act of 1969 is hereby amended by the substitution of the following for subsection (1):

“(1) Except coins issued under this Act, the Decimal Currency Act, 1990, and the *Economic and Monetary Union Act, 1998*, and coins denominated in euro or in cent and issued by one or more of the other participating Member States, no piece of metal or mixed metal of any purported nominal face value whatsoever shall be made or issued in the State as a coin or a token for money or as purporting (whether expressly or by implication) that the holder thereof is entitled to demand any value denoted thereon.”.

##### 13 Expenses of provision of coins.

**13.**—All sums required for the provision of coins denominated in euro or in cent and provided under *section 11* shall be defrayed out of the general fund of the Central Bank and debited therein to the currency reserve.

##### 14 Proceeds of issue of coins.

**14.**—The proceeds of every issue of coins denominated in euro or in cent and provided under *section 11* shall be paid into the general fund of the Central Bank of Ireland and carried therein to the credit of the currency reserve.

### Chapter IV *Withdrawal of Legal Tender Notes and Coins*

##### 15 Calling in of coins.

**15.**—(1) Subject to *subsection (2)*, the Minister may by order call in coins of any particular composition, date or denomination—

(*a*) issued under the repealed enactments, or

(*b*) issued under the Decimal Currency Acts, 1969 to 1990, or

(*c*) issued under this Act, or

(*d*) circulating in the State and issued by one or more of the other participating Member States which are comparable to coins issued under this Act,

and the Minister may by order amend or revoke an order under this section.

(2) The Minister shall not make an order under this section which relates to matters within the competence of the European Central Bank by or under paragraph 2 of Article 105a of the Treaty except with the consent of that Bank.

(3) The following shall apply in respect of every order under *subsection (1)*:

(*a*) the order shall provide for its coming into operation on a particular date (in this subsection referred to as the “withdrawal date”) not being earlier than 6 months after the date of its making,

(*b*) the order shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made and, if a resolution annulling the order is passed by either such House before the withdrawal date, the order shall be annulled accordingly.

(4) Section 12 of the Act of 1969 is hereby repealed.

(5) In this section “repealed enactments” means the Coinage Act, 1926, (including that Act as amended by the Emergency Powers (No. 140) Order, 1942, and by sections 58 and 60 of the Central Bank Act, 1942) or the Coinage Act, 1950.

##### 16 Redemption of coins.

**16.**—The Act of 1969 is hereby amended by the substitution of the following for section 11:

“11.—The Central Bank may, if it thinks fit so to do, redeem coins—

(*a*) issued under the repealed enactments, or

(*b*) issued under the Decimal Currency Acts, 1969 to 1990, or

(*c*) issued under the *Economic and Monetary Union Act, 1998*, or

(*d*) circulating in the State and issued by one or more of the other participating Member States which are comparable to coins issued under the *Economic and Monetary Union Act, 1998*,

and all sums required for that purpose shall be defrayed out of the general fund of the Central Bank and debited therein to the currency reserve.”.

##### 17 Prohibition of melting down of coins.

**17.**—Section 15 of the Act of 1969 shall apply to coins issued under this Act and coins circulating in the State and issued by one or more of the other participating Member States which are comparable to coins issued under this Act.

##### 18 Redemption of legal tender notes.

**18.**—Section 121 of the Central Bank Act, 1989, is hereby amended by the addition of the following subsection after subsection 3:

“(4) The Central Bank may continue to redeem Irish pound notes issued under section 44 of the Central Bank Act, 1971, or any other note which was, immediately prior to the earlier operative date (within the meaning assigned by *section 9* of the *Economic and Monetary Union Act, 1998*) or, where there is no such date, the 30th day of June, 2002, a legal tender note in the State and issued under the Currency Act, 1927, or under any subsequent Act.”.

##### 19 Calling in of legal tender notes.

**19.**—Section 122 of the Central Bank Act, 1989, is hereby amended by the substitution of “with the authority of the European Central Bank and subject to such conditions as to time, place, manner and order of presentation as the Bank thinks fit” for “subject to such time, place, manner and order of presentation as it thinks fit” and the said section, as so amended, is set out in the Table to this section.

TABLE

122.—The Bank may, with the authority of the European Central Bank and subject to such conditions as to time, place, manner and order of presentation as the Bank thinks fit, call in any legal tender notes issued under this Act, or under the Currency and Central Bank Acts, 1927 to 1971, or any of those Acts, on the terms of paying for such notes on presentation in the same manner as if they were being redeemed under section 121.

### Chapter V *Miscellaneous*

##### 20 Copyright in euro notes and coins.

**20.**—The Copyright Act, 1963, is hereby amended in section 57 by the insertion of the following subsections after subsection (1):

“(1A) Subsection (1) of this section and Part II of this Act are without prejudice to the copyright of the European Central Bank in legal tender notes denominated in the euro unit.

(1B) This section shall apply to any national face of coins issued under *section 11* of the *Economic and Monetary Union Act, 1998*.”.

##### 21 Modification of forms.

**21.**—(1) Any form set out in a statute or statutory instrument passed or made before the 1st day of January, 2002, and containing a reference to a sum of money in the Irish pound unit (whether expressly or by reference to section 11 of the Decimal Currency Act, 1970) may be modified by, or with the express permission of, the authority issuing it so as to show also the corresponding amount in the euro unit in accordance with the conversion rate.

(2) Any form set out in a statute or statutory instrument passed or made before the 1st day of January, 2002, which is designed to accommodate references to sums of money wholly or partly in the Irish pound unit (whether expressly or by reference to section 11 of the Decimal Currency Act, 1970) may be modified by, or with the express permission of, the authority issuing it so as to enable it to accommodate references to sums of money wholly or partly in the euro unit.

(3) *Subsections (1)* and *(2)* are without prejudice to any other provision authorising the modification of any such form.

##### 22 Interbank offered rate.

**22.**—As of the 1st day of January, 1999, the rate known as the Dublin Interbank Offered Rate shall be replaced by the rate known as the Euro Interbank Offered Rate.

##### 23 Redenomination of outstanding debt into euro.

**23.**—(1) The Minister may by order, in respect of one or more than one date and under such terms and conditions as the Minister determines, redenominate into the euro unit all or part of the outstanding debt duly issued by or on behalf of the State under the law of the State and denominated in the Irish pound unit, and the Minister may by order amend or revoke an order under this subsection but shall not revoke an order after its effective date.

(2) (*a*) (i) The Minister may redenominate into the euro unit all or part of the outstanding debt duly issued by or on behalf of the State and denominated in any national currency unit, where the Member State in the national currency unit of which the debt is denominated has redenominated into the euro unit all or part of its general government debt denominated in its national currency unit.

(ii) The terms and conditions in accordance with which the Minister may effect a redenomination under *subparagraph (i)* shall be those laid down in the law of the Member State under which the debt was issued.

(iii) Prior notice in the *Iris Oifigiúil* of an intention to effect a redenomination under *subparagraph (i)* shall be given by the Minister at least one month in advance of such redenomination.

(*b*) An issuer of debt other than the State may, under the terms and conditions laid down in an order under *subsection (1)*, as if such issuer were the State, redenominate into the euro unit bonds and other forms of securitised debt negotiable in the capital markets, and money market instruments issued by them under the law of the State and denominated in any national currency unit, but only where the Member State in the national currency unit of which the debt is denominated has redenominated into the euro unit all or part of its general government debt denominated in its national currency unit.

(3) (*a*) Where, in respect of its borrowing, a State body and all other relevant parties to a facility agreement, denominated in any national currency unit, agree to redenominate into the euro unit the currency of the agreement and agree to redenominate the amounts specified therein and to adjust them to convenient euro-denominated sums, the consent of either or both the Minister and any other Minister of the Government which, but for this subsection, would be duly required shall not be required to such adjustments or to any other consequential adjustments to the agreement concerned arising therefrom or pursuant to the introduction of the euro but only if the aggregate amount of borrowings by the State body concerned, including borrowings by way of negotiable debt instruments, does not exceed the limit (if any) on such borrowings to which a Minister of the Government has already consented.

(*b*) Where the Minister has issued a guarantee in respect of the borrowings of a State body and the contract in respect of those borrowings is amended pursuant to *paragraph (a)*, the consent of the Minister and of any other Minister of the Government to an equivalent change in the guarantee shall not be required but only if the aggregate amount of the borrowings of the State body concerned, including borrowings by way of negotiable debt instruments, which are already guaranteed by the Minister is not exceeded.

(*c*) In this section “State body” means a body whose borrowing is subject to the consent of a Minister of the Government.

##### 24 Redenomination of share capital.

**24.**—(1) In this section and *sections 25* and *26*—

“articles of association” in the case of a company which is not a company within the meaning of section 2(1) of the Companies Act, 1963, includes its charter, bye-laws or other constituent documents;

“company” means a company within the meaning of section 2(1) of the Companies Act, 1963, and any body corporate within the meaning of section 377(1) of that Act;

“share” includes share of stock in share capital of a company.

(2) (*a*) Where the share capital of a company or any part of such capital is redenominated into euro after the transitional period under Article 14 (which relates to the reading, at the end of the transitional period, of references in legal instruments to national currency units as references to the euro unit) of the Council Regulation of 1998, such redenomination shall be effected at the whole or any part of the total issued or to be issued share capital, including each class of the foregoing (where any separate classes exist).

(*b*) The redenominated nominal share par value shall be calculated by dividing the total redenominated amount determined in accordance with *paragraph (a)* by the total number of shares authorised, issued or to be issued, or in the relevant class, as appropriate, so that the nominal value is expressed in unrounded euro amounts.

##### 25 Transitional provisions relating to *section 24*.

**25.**—(1) This section shall apply—

(*a*) to every company having a share capital, and

(*b*) notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Companies Acts, 1963 to 1990, or in the memorandum or articles of association of a company to which this section applies.

(2) Where the whole or part of the total authorised share capital of a company, the total issued share capital or to be issued share capital of a company including any class of the foregoing (where any separate classes exist) is, in its memorandum or articles of association, expressed in Irish pounds or in the currency of another participating Member State immediately before the 1st day of January, 1999, such share capital, class or part thereof may be redenominated into the euro unit in accordance with *subsection (3)*.

(3) (*a*) Subject to *subsection (5)* and *paragraph (b)*, the shareholders of a company may by ordinary resolution—

(i) passed at a general meeting, or

(ii) if the articles of association of the company so permit, in writing signed by all the members of the company for the time being entitled to attend and vote on such resolution in accordance with section 141(8) of the Companies Act, 1963,

determine that the whole or part of the total authorised share capital of a company, the total issued share capital or to be issued share capital of a company including any class of the foregoing shall be redenominated into the euro unit at the conversion rate and converted in accordance with Article 4, and rounded in accordance with Article 5, of Council Regulation (EC) No 1103/97 of 17 June 1997 on certain provisions relating to the introduction of the euro.

(*b*) The redenominated nominal share par value shall be calculated by dividing the total redenominated amount determined in accordance with *paragraph (a)* by the total number of shares authorised, issued or to be issued, or in the relevant class, as appropriate, so that the nominal value is expressed in unrounded euro amounts.

(4) A reduction in the nominal value of issued share capital under this section shall be deemed not to be a reduction of share capital within the meaning of the Companies Acts, 1963 to 1990.

(5) Any redenomination pursuant to a shareholders’ resolution under *subsection (3)* shall not in any way change the rights, privileges or advantages that were held by, or obligations, restrictions or limitations imposed on, shareholders prior to the passing of the resolution in relation to dividends, voting at meetings or other matters.

(6) A company shall send a printed copy of any resolution under *subsection (3)* to the Registrar of Companies within 15 days of its passing and the Registrar shall duly record every such resolution.

(7) (*a*) Where a company fails to send a printed copy of any resolution under *subsection (3)* to the Registrar of Companies in accordance with *subsection (6)*, it shall be guilty of an offence and be liable, on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding £250.

(*b*) Where an offence under this subsection is committed by a body corporate and is proved to have been so committed with the consent, connivance or approval of or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of a person being a director, secretary or other officer of the body corporate, or any other person who was acting or purporting to act in any such capacity, that person as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of an offence and be liable to be proceeded against and punished as if he or she were guilty of the first-mentioned offence.

(8) This section, other than *subsections (6), (7)* and this subsection, shall cease to have effect from the 1st day of January, 2002.

##### 26 Renominalisation of shares.

**26.**—(1) This section shall apply—

(*a*) to every company having a share capital, and

(*b*) notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Companies Acts, 1963 to 1990, or in the memorandum or articles of association of a company to which this section applies.

(2) Following any redenomination of share capital or any part thereof into the euro unit pursuant to *section 25*, or where at the end of the transitional period Article 14 (which relates to the reading, at the end of the transitional period, of references in legal instruments to national currency units as references to the euro unit) of the Council Regulation of 1998 applies, the authorised and issued, or to be issued, share capital and the nominal par value of shares in a company may be further adjusted to achieve nominal share values considered appropriate to the then share price in the euro unit (in this section referred to as “renominalisation”) in accordance with *subsections (3)* and *(4)* but such adjustments shall not reduce the nominal value of any share to zero.

(3) A company to which this section applies may by ordinary resolution—

(*a*) passed by the shareholders in general meeting, or

(*b*) if the articles of association so permit, in writing signed by all the members of the company for the time being entitled to attend and vote on such resolution in accordance with section 141(8) of the Companies Act, 1963,

alter the provisions of the memorandum and articles of association to effect renominalisation, provided there is an appropriate adjustment in distributable reserves (being profits available for distribution to which section 45(2) of the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1983, relates) or through the introduction of additional capital, which shall be properly accounted for, and where there is not a decrease in share capital.

(4) (*a*) Where the result of the renominalisation by virtue of *subsection (2)* would be a decrease in the whole or part of the authorised and issued share capital, or in a class of shares, a special resolution shall be required to be passed—

(i) in the case of the authorised and issued share capital, by the shareholders, or

(ii) in the case of a class of share, by the shareholders of the class,

to the effect that there shall be transferred to a fund to be known as the Capital Conversion Reserve Fund, an amount equal to the aggregate amount of the capital reduced as a result of the renominalisation in accordance with *subsection (2)*, and that the amount so transferred does not represent more than 10 per cent of the reduced share capital.

(*b*) The provisions of the Companies Act, 1963, which relate to the reduction of the share capital of a company shall, except as provided in this section, apply as if the Capital Conversion Reserve Fund were paid up share capital of the company concerned.

(5) Any renominalisation of the nominal value of issued share capital under this section shall be deemed not to be a reduction of share capital within the meaning of the Companies Acts, 1963 to 1990.

(6) Any renominalisation of shares under this section shall not of itself affect or vary the obligation of a shareholder to pay the amount, if any, unpaid on such shares.

(7) Any renominalisation under this section shall not in any way change the rights, privileges or advantages that were held by, or obligations, restrictions or limitations imposed on, shareholders prior to the passing of the resolution in relation to dividends, voting at meetings or other matters.

(8) A company shall send a printed copy of any resolution under *subsection (3)* or *(4)* to the Registrar of Companies within 15 days of the passing of any such resolution and the Registrar shall duly record every such resolution so sent.

(9) (*a*) Where a company fails to comply with *subsection (8)* it shall be guilty of an offence and be liable, on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding £250.

(*b*) Where an offence under this subsection is committed by a body corporate and is proved to have been so committed with the consent, connivance or approval of or to be attributable to any neglect on the part of a person being a director, secretary or other officer of the body corporate, or any other person who was acting or purporting to act in any such capacity, that person as well as the body corporate shall be guilty of an offence and be liable to be proceeded against and punished as if he or she were guilty of the first-mentioned offence.

(10) The Capital Conversion Reserve Fund may, notwithstanding any other provision of this section, be applied by the company concerned in paying up unissued shares of that company (other than redeemable shares) to be allotted to shareholders of the company as fully paid bonus shares.

(11) This section, other than *subsections (8), (9), (10)* and this subsection, shall cease to have effect from the 30th day of June, 2003.

##### 27 Amendment of Central Bank Act, 1989.

**27.**—The Central Bank Act, 1989, is hereby amended in section 134—

(*a*) by the insertion of the following subsection after subsection (4):

“(4A) No direction under this section shall be made by the Minister in respect of the performance of any function or duty of the Bank, or the exercise of any power by the Bank, required by or under the Treaty or the Statute.”,

and

(*b*) by the substitution of the following subsection for subsection (7):

“(7) In this section—

‘foreign currency’ has the same meaning as it has in the Exchange Control Act, 1954;

‘the Treaty’ and ‘the Statute’ have the same meanings, respectively, as are assigned to them for the purposes of this Act by subsection (8) (inserted by the Central Bank Act, 1998) of section 23.”.

##### 28 Amendment of Central Bank Act, 1997.

**28.**—The Central Bank Act, 1997, is hereby amended—

(*a*) in section 10, by the addition of the following subsection after subsection (2):

“(3) In the performance of any function or duty by the Bank, or the exercise of any power by the Bank, required by or under the Treaty or the Statute, subsections (1) and (2) shall not apply.”,

and

(*b*) in section 13, by the insertion of the following subsection after subsection (2):

“(2A) (*a*) In the performance of any function or duty by the Bank, or the exercise of any power by the Bank, required by or under the Treaty or the Statute, subsections (1)(*b*) and (2) shall not apply.

(*b*) In this subsection ‘the Treaty’ and ‘the Statute’ have the same meanings, respectively, as are assigned to them for the purposes of this Act by subsection (2) (inserted by the Central Bank Act, 1998) of section 24.”.

##### 29 Power to make regulations.

**29.**—(1) The Minister may make regulations for enabling this Part to have full effect.

(2) Regulations under this Part may contain such incidental, supplementary and consequential provisions as appear to the Minister to be expedient for any purpose of this Part.

## PART III Commemorative Coinage

##### 30 Design, etc., issue and sale of coins.

**30.**—(1) The Minister may provide coins of a commemorative nature of such denominations, technical specifications, dimensions, composition and design or designs as the Minister may determine.

(2) Coins provided under this Part may be issued and put on sale to the public by the Minister through the Central Bank of Ireland.

##### 31 Determination of price.

**31.**—The price at which any type of coin is put on sale under *section 30* shall be determined by the Central Bank of Ireland and different prices may be determined—

(*a*) for different finishes applied to, or strikings of, the type of coin, and

(*b*) taking account of packaging (if any) or different packaging supplied with the type of coin,

but no price shall be so determined at below the face value of the coin.

##### 32 Commemorative coins to be legal tender.

**32.**—A tender of coins issued under this Part shall be legal tender subject to any general limitation as to the number of coins being legal tender for any single transaction.

##### 33 Payments into and out of general fund of Central Bank of Ireland.

**33.**—(1) All sums required for the provision and issuance of coins provided under this Part shall be defrayed out of the general fund of the Central Bank of Ireland and debited therein to the currency reserve.

(2) The proceeds of every issue of coins provided under this Part shall be paid into the general fund of the Central Bank of Ireland and carried therein to the credit of the currency reserve.

##### 34 Copyright.

**34.**—Section 57 of the Copyright Act, 1963, shall apply to coins issued under this Part.
