---
title: "Chester Beatty Library Act , 1986"
identifier: "IE-1986-act-17"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1986-06-17"
last_updated: "1986-06-17"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1986/act/17"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Leabharlann Chester Beatty, 1986"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1986/17"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Chester Beatty Library Act , 1986

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Commissioners” means the Commissioners of Public Works in Ireland;

“improvement”, in relation to the premises, includes structural or other alterations or additions to the premises, the installation on the premises of any plant, machinery or equipment and the construction of any building (or other structure) on the premises;

“the premises” means the buildings and other land situated at 20, Shrewsbury Road in the city of Dublin and known at the commencement of this Act as the Chester Beatty Library and includes any other premises for the time being used for the purposes of the Chester Beatty Library;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Finance;

“the trustees” means the persons in whom the Chester Beatty Library is for the time being vested as trustees by virtue of the will of Sir Alfred Chester Beatty, deceased, and the codicil thereto dated the 17th day of November, 1966, and the Chester Beatty Library Act, 1968, and who are referred to in the said will and codicil and the said Act as library trustees.

##### 2 Powers of Commissioners in relation to Chester Beatty Library.

**2.**—The Commissioners may, with the consent of the Minister and upon and subject to such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon by the Commissioners and the trustees, carry out, or cause to be carried out on their behalf, such work as, in the opinion of the Commissioners, is necessary or expedient for the maintenance, upkeep, repair, renovation and improvement of the premises.

##### 3 Payment by Minister for certain work carried out by the trustees to Chester Beatty Library.

**3.**—The Minister may, in his absolute discretion, pay to the trustees an amount equal to the whole or any part of any moneys expended by the trustees in respect of work carried out on or after the 18th day of October, 1984, and before the passing of this Act in relation to the maintenance, upkeep, repair, renovation, or improvement of the premises.

##### 4 Expenses.

**4.**—The expenses incurred by the Commissioners in the administration of this Act shall, to such extent as may be sanctioned by the Minister, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

##### 5 Short title and collective citation.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Chester Beatty Library Act, 1986.

(2) This Act and the Chester Beatty Library Act, 1968, may be cited together as the Chester Beatty Library Acts, 1968 and 1986.
