---
title: "Railway Fires (Amendment) Act , 1931"
identifier: "IE-1931-act-23"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1931-07-17"
last_updated: "1931-07-17"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1931/act/23"
title_ga: "Acht na dTóiteán Bóthair Iarainn (Leasú), 1931"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1931/23"
---
# Railway Fires (Amendment) Act , 1931

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—(1) In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Railway Fires Act, 1905.

(2) Every expression and word to which a particular meaning is given in the Principal Act has in this Act the particular meaning so given to it.

##### 2 Amendment of sub-section (3) of section 1 of the Principal Act.

**2.**—Sub-section (3) of section 1 of the Principal Act shall have effect in relation to actions for damage caused by fires occurring after the passing of this Act as if the words “two hundred pounds” were substituted for the words “one hundred pounds” in that sub-section.

##### 3 Notices of claims and damage.

**3.**—Section 3 of the Principal Act shall not apply in respect of any action for damage by fire occurring after the passing of this Act and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that the Principal Act shall not apply in the case of any action brought against any railway company for damage by fire occurring after the passing of this Act unless—

(*a*) within seven days after the occurrence of such fire notice in writing has been given to such railway company of such occurrence and of the intention to bring such action, and

(*b*) within twenty-one days after the occurrence of such fire particulars in writing of such damage have been given to such railway company, and

(*c*) the particulars of damage so given to such railway company show that such damage does not exceed the sum of two hundred pounds.

##### 4 Short title and citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Railway Fires (Amendment) Act, 1931.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Railway Fires Acts, 1905 and 1931.
