---
title: "Censorship of Films (Amendment) Act , 1970"
identifier: "IE-1970-act-7"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1970-06-09"
last_updated: "1970-06-09"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1970/act/7"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Scrúdóireacht Scannán (Leasú), 1970"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1970/7"
---
# Censorship of Films (Amendment) Act , 1970

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Acts” means the Censorship of Films Acts, 1923 to 1930;

“the Principal Act” means the Censorship of Films Act, 1923.

##### 2 Application of Acts to pictures previously considered by Official Censor.

**2.**—(1) Where an application is made under section 7 of the Principal Act in respect of a picture which was the subject of a decision of the Official Censor under that section or, if there was an appeal from that decision, a decision of the Appeal Board under section 8 of that Act and the decision, or, if there was more than one decision, the latest decision, was made before the 18th day of January, 1965, or not less than seven years before the date of the application—

(*a*) the application shall be entertained and decided by the Official Censor,

(*b*) any appeal to the Appeal Board from the decision of the Official Censor shall be entertained and decided by the Appeal Board, and

(*c*) a certificate under the Principal Act shall, if the person who brought the application so requests, be granted or withheld or the grant thereof shall be refused, in accordance with the decision of the Official Censor or the Appeal Board, as the case may be,

as if the picture had not been the subject of a decision under the said section 7 or the said section 8 before the date of the application, and the Acts shall apply and have effect accordingly.

(2) Where a certificate under the Principal Act is granted or withheld or the grant thereof is refused in respect of a picture, any previous such certificate or refusal or withholding in respect of the picture shall cease to have effect.

##### 3 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Censorship of Films (Amendment) Act, 1970.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Acts and may be cited together therewith as the Censorship of Films Acts, 1923 to 1970.
