---
title: "Diseases of Animals Act , 1960"
identifier: "IE-1960-act-26"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1960-07-26"
last_updated: "1960-07-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1960/act/26"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Ghalair Ainmhithe, 1960"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1960/26"
---
# Diseases of Animals Act , 1960

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Diseases of Animals Act, 1894, as amended or adapted by or under subsequent enactments.

##### 2 Total sums leviable under section 71 of the Principal Act.

**2.**—So much of section 1 of the Diseases of Animals Act, 1954, as fixes the total sum which may be levied under section 71 of the Principal Act shall cease to have effect in relation to sums so levied after the passing of this Act, and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that the total sum which may be so levied after the passing of this Act shall not exceed a sum equivalent to a poundage of fourpence in the pound on the net annual value of the property in all the administrative counties in the State.

##### 3 Winding up of the General Cattle Diseases Fund.

**3.**—(1) The General Cattle Diseases Fund (in this section referred to as the Fund) established by the Contagious Diseases (Animals) Act, 1878, and continued by section 71 of the Principal Act shall be wound up on the 31st day of March, 1963.

(2) Any balance standing to the credit of the Fund on the 31st day of March, 1963, and any moneys which but for this section would be payable into the Fund after that day shall be paid into or disposed of for the benefit of the Exchequer in such manner as the Minister for Finance shall direct.

##### 4 Cesser of section 72 of the Principal Act.

**4.**—Subsections (1), (2) and (3) of section 72 of the Principal Act shall, on the 1st day of April, 1961, cease to have effect save with respect to expenditure incurred before that day by a local authority by way of remuneration, expenses, allowances or compensation payable by the local authority in accordance with that Act.

##### 5 Amendments of the Diseases of Animals (Bovine Tuberculosis) Act, 1957.

**5.**—(1) The Diseases of Animals (Bovine Tuberculosis) Act, 1957, is hereby amended—

(*a*) by the substitution in section 1 for the definition of “accredited area” of the following:

“‘attested area’ has the meaning specified in paragraph (*b*) of subsection (1) of section 2;”,

(*b*) by the substitution in section 2 and in subsections (2) and (3) of section 5 for “accredited”, in each case where that word occurs, of “attested”, and

(*c*) by the substitution in subsection (1) of section 5 for “Register of Accredited Herds” of “Register of Attested Herds”.

(2) Subsection (1) of this section shall come into operation on such day as the Minister for Agriculture by order appoints.

##### 6 Repeals.

**6.**—(1) The enactments specified in the Schedule to this Act are hereby repealed to the extent specified in the third column of that Schedule.

(2) Subsection (1) of this section shall come into operation on the 1st day of April, 1963.

##### 7 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**7.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Diseases of Animals Act, 1960.

(2) The Diseases of Animals Acts, 1894 to 1957, and this Act may be cited together as the Diseases of Animals Acts, 1894 to 1960.

(3) This Act shall be read and construed as one with the Diseases of Animals Acts, 1894 to 1957.

## SCHEDULE. Enactments Repealed.

| Session and Chapter or Number and Year | Short Title | Extent of Repeal |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 57 & 58 Vic., c. 57. | Diseases of Animals Act, 1894. | Section 71 (except subsection (8)), subsection (4) of section 72, section 73 and the Second Schedule. |
| No. 2 of 1945. | Diseases of Animals Act, 1945. | Section 9. |
