---
title: "Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act  1974"
identifier: "IE-1974-act-21"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1974-07-16"
last_updated: "1974-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1974/act/21"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Chuideachta Forbartha Aerfort Neamhchustam na Sionna Teoranta (Leasú), 1974"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1974/21"
---
# Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act  1974

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act—

“the Act of 1970” means the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act, 1970;

“the Company” means the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited;

“the Principal Act” means the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited Act, 1959.

(2) The Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited Acts, 1959 to 1970 and this Act shall be construed as one.

##### 2 Amendment of section 2 of the Principal Act.

**2.**—So much of section 2 of the Principal Act (as amended by section 8 of the Act of 1970) as provides that the aggregate of the amounts which the Minister for Finance may subscribe under that section in taking up shares of the Company shall not exceed seventeen million pounds is hereby repealed and, in lieu thereof, it is hereby enacted that the aggregate of the amounts so subscribed shall not exceed twenty-five million pounds.

##### 3 Amendment of section 8 of the Principal Act and section 2 of the Act of 1970.

**3.**—Section 9 of the Act of 1970 is hereby repealed and, in lieu thereof, it is hereby enacted that the aggregate amount of grants to be made to the Company under section 8 of the Principal Act and section 2 of the Act of 1970 shall not exceed seventeen million pounds.

##### 4 Advances to the Company by Minister for Finance.

**4.**—Section 10 of the Act of 1970 is hereby repealed and, in lieu thereof, it is hereby enacted that the aggregate amount of advances under section 4 (1) of the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act, 1963, and advances under section 4 of the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act, 1961, shall not exceed seventeen million pounds.

##### 5 Short title and collective citation.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act, 1974.

(2) The Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited Acts, 1959 to 1970, and this Act may be cited together as the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited Acts, 1959 to 1974.
