---
title: "Dublin Port and Docks Act , 1925"
identifier: "IE-1925-act-1"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1925-02-12"
last_updated: "1925-02-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1925/act/1"
title_ga: "Acht Port agus Duganna Bhaile Átha Cliath, 1925"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1925/1"
---
# Dublin Port and Docks Act , 1925

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “Principal Act” means the Dublin Port and Docks Act, 1898;

the expression “the Board” means the Dublin Port and Docks Board.

##### 2 Amendment of section 20 of the Principal Act.

**2.**—Section 20 of the Principal Act shall be and is hereby amended by the substitution of the words “Chief Justice of the Irish Free State” for the words “Lord Chief Justice of Ireland” where the last mentioned words occur in sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of that section, and the said section 20 of the Principal Act shall be construed and have effect accordingly.

##### 3 Appointment of revisor of lists of electors of elective members in the year 1924.

**3.**—Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 20 of the Principal Act relating to the date in each year on or before which the revisor of the lists of electors of elective members of the Board is required by that sub-section to be appointed for each year, the revisor of the lists of electors of elective members of the Board for the year 1924 may be appointed under the said section 20 as amended by this Act on or before the 16th day of March, 1925.

##### 4 Sittings for revision of lists by the revisor appointed for the year 1924.

**4.**—(1) The provisions of section 21 of the Principal Act (which relate to the holding by the revisor of the lists of electors of elective members of the Board appointed under section 20 of that Act of sittings for the revision of the lists aforesaid and to the publication by the Board of notice of the first of such sittings) shall not apply to the revisor of the lists of electors of elective members of the Board to be appointed for the year 1924 under section 20 of the Principal Act as amended by this Act or to the Board for the year 1924, and in lieu and stead thereof the provisions of this section shall apply to such revisor and to such Board respectively.

(2) As soon as conveniently may be after the 19th day of March, 1925, the revisor of the lists of electors of elective members of the Board appointed for the year 1924 under section 20 of the Principal Act as amended by this Act shall hold meetings for the revision of the lists aforesaid, and the Board shall previously publish notice of the first of such sittings which publication shall be completed not less than four or more than seven days before the day appointed for that sitting.

##### 5 Completion of revision of lists of electors of elective members by the revisor appointed for the year 1924.

**5.**—The revisor of the lists of electors of elective members of the Board to be appointed for the year 1924 under section 20 of the Principal Act as amended by this Act shall complete the revision of the lists aforesaid on or before the 31st day of March, 1925, and the provisions of section 25 of the Principal Act relating to the date on or before which the revision of the lists of electors of elective members of the Board by the revisor appointed under section 20 of the Principal Act shall be completed in each year shall not apply to the revision of those lists for the year 1924 by the revisor to be appointed for that year under the said section 20 of the Act aforesaid as amended by this Act.

##### 6 Continuance in office, retirement, and election of certain members of the Board.

**6.**—The places of the members of the Board who went out of office on the second Thursday in the month of January, 1925, shall on and after the fourth Thursday in the month of April, 1925, be supplied by the election of a like number of members under sub-section (7) of section 7 of the Principal Act, and all the provisions of the Principal Act as amended by this Act in relation to an election under the said sub-section (7) shall apply to the election aforesaid save that such election shall be held on the Tuesday in the month of April, 1925, immediately preceding the fourth Thursday in that month in lieu of the day appointed by the said sub-section (7).

##### 7 Short title.

**7.**—This Act may be cited as the Dublin Port and Docks Act, 1925.
