---
title: "King's Inns Library Act , 1945"
identifier: "IE-1945-act-22"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1945-07-11"
last_updated: "1945-07-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1945/act/22"
title_ga: "Acht Leabharlann Óstaí an Rí, 1945"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1945/22"
---
# King's Inns Library Act , 1945

##### 1 Re-enactment with modifications of the existing statute law relating to the annual compensation of £433 6s. 8d. payable to the King's Inns Library.

**1.**—(1) In this section—

the expression “the Library” means the King's Inns Library, Dublin;

the expression “the existing annual compensation” means the annual compensation of four hundred and thirty-three pounds, six shillings and eight pence payable, by virtue of the joint operation of section 34 of the Copyright Act, 1911, and subsection (1) of section 174 of the Industrial and Commercial Property (Protection) Act, 1927 (No. 16 of 1927), out of the Central Fund to the Library, as compensation for the loss of the right to receive gratuitous copies of books.

(2) With the object of enabling part of the existing annual compensation to be expended in the binding of books, the following provisions shall have effect—

(*a*) in continuation of the existing annual compensation, there shall, subject to paragraph (*b*) of this subsection, be paid, in each financial year commencing on or after the 1st day of April, 1945, to the Benchers of the Honourable Society of King's Inns, Dublin, the sum of four hundred and thirty-three pounds, six shillings and eight pence;

(*b*) the said sum shall not be payable in any financial year unless the Minister for Finance is satisfied that the compensation for the previous financial year has been or will be applied in the purchase of books for the use of, and to be preserved in, the Library or has been or will be applied in such purchase and, to an extent not exceeding one-half, in the re-binding of books preserved in the Library or in the binding of books or serial parts of volumes (being books or serial parts of volumes published unbound) preserved or to be preserved in the Library;

(*c*) the said annual sum shall be charged on and paid out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof;

(*d*) subsection (1) of section 174 of the Industrial and Commercial Property (Protection) Act, 1927 (No. 16 of 1927), in so far as it preserves the right, which was continued by section 34 of the Copyright Act, 1911, of the Library to be paid the existing annual compensation, shall cease to apply to any financial year commencing on or after the said 1st day of April, 1945.

##### 2 Short title.

**2.**—This Act may be cited as the King's Inns Library Act, 1945.
