---
title: "Transport (No. 2) Act , 1959"
identifier: "IE-1959-act-40"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1959-12-22"
last_updated: "1959-12-22"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1959/act/40"
title_ga: "An tAcht Iompair (Uimh. 2), 1959"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1959/40"
---
# Transport (No. 2) Act , 1959

##### 1 Grant of increase in standard lorry weight.

**1.**—(1) In this section—

“licence with respect to which this section applies” means a merchandise (existing carrier's) licence issued in pursuance of subsection (2) of section 12 of the Road Transport Act, 1933, or subsection (1) of section 114 of the Transport Act, 1944;

“standard lorry weight” means the standard lorry weight under paragraph (*a*) of section 13 of the Road Transport Act, 1933, subsection (3) of section 11 of the Road Transport Act, 1934, or paragraph (*a*) of subsection (4) of section 114 of the Transport Act, 1944 (as may be appropriate), subject to any increase thereto that may have been granted pursuant to any Act passed before the passing of this Act.

(2) The Minister for Transport and Power may, on application made to him by the licensee under a licence with respect to which this section applies, grant an increase in the standard lorry weight for the licensee.

(3) An increase under this section shall be calculated at a rate not exceeding seven hundredweight in respect of each lorry operated by the licensee or the original licensee (as the case may be) which complied with—

(*a*) in case the licence was issued in pursuance of subsection (2) of section 12 of the Road Transport Act, 1933, the qualifying conditions specified in paragraph (*b*) of subsection (2) of section 11 of that Act, or

(*b*) in case the licence was issued in pursuance of subsection (1) of section 114 of the Transport Act, 1944, the qualifying conditions specified in subparagraph (v) of paragraph (*b*) of subsection (3) of that section.

##### 2 Short title.

**2.**—This Act may be cited as the Transport (No. 2) Act, 1959.
