---
title: "Local Government (Collection of Rates) Act , 1926"
identifier: "IE-1926-act-30"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1926-07-16"
last_updated: "1926-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1926/act/30"
title_ga: "An tAcht Rialtais Áitiúla (Bailiú Rátaí), 1926"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1926/30"
---
# Local Government (Collection of Rates) Act , 1926

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “Principal Act” means the Local Government (Collection of Rates) Act, 1924 (No. 11 of 1924) and

the expression “local authority” has the same meaning as it has in the Principal Act.

##### 2 Extension of application of section 6 of Principal Act.

**2.**—Section 6 of the Principal Act and also (unless and until otherwise provided by rules made under that section as extended by this section) all rules made under that section and in force immediately before the commencement of this Act shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in sub-section (3) of the said section 6, apply to poor-rate and other rates made by a local authority for the service of the local financial year ending on the 31st day of March, 1927 or the service of the local financial year ending on the 31st day of March, 1928 as well as to poor-rate and other rates mentioned in the said sub-section (3).

##### 3 Construction of section 7 of Principal Act.

**3.**—The reference in section 7 of the Principal Act to rules made under that Act shall be construed as including rules made under that Act as amended by this Act, and the said section 7 shall have effect accordingly.

##### 4 Short title, citation and commencement.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Local Government (Collection of Rates) Act, 1926.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Local Government (Collection of Rates) Acts, 1924 and 1926.

(3) This Act shall be deemed to have come into force on and shall take effect as on and from the 1st day of April 1926.
