---
title: "Medical Act , 1926"
identifier: "IE-1926-act-4"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1926-02-19"
last_updated: "1926-02-19"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1926/act/4"
title_ga: "An tAcht Dochtúireachta, 1926"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1926/4"
---
# Medical Act , 1926

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Medical Act, 1925 (No. 2 of 1925).

##### 2 Continuance of Principal Act.

**2.**—The Principal Act shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained therein, continue in force until the 21st day of August, 1926 and shall then expire unless further continued by an order of the Executive Council made under this Act.

##### 3 Further continuance of Principal Act by Executive Council.

**3.**—(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Executive Council, if they so think fit, may by an order made before the 21st day of August, 1926 continue the Principal Act in force for one month from the said 21st day of August and may thereafter from time to time by order made before the expiration of the Principal Act under the last previous order made under this section continue the Principal Act in force for one month from the date on which the Principal Act would have expired under such last previous order.

(2) If an order is made by the Executive Council under this section, the Principal Act shall continue in force until the end of the month for which it is continued by such order or, if more than one such order is made, the last of such orders and shall then expire.

(3) The Principal Act shall not be continued in force after the 21st day of February, 1927 by orders made under this section and accordingly not more than six orders may be made by the Executive Council under this section.

##### 4 Short title and citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Medical Act, 1926.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Medical Acts, 1925 and 1926.
