---
title: "Summer Time Act , 1923"
identifier: "IE-1923-act-13"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1923-04-19"
last_updated: "1923-04-19"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1923/act/13"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Am Samhraidh, 1923"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1923/13"
---
# Summer Time Act , 1923

##### 1 Time to be advanced one hour during summer time.

**1.**—(1) The time for general purposes in Saorstát Eireann shall, during the period of summer time, be one hour in advance of West-European time.

(2) Wherever any reference to a point of time occurs in any enactment, Order in Council, Order, regulation, rule, byelaw, deed, notice or other document whatsoever, the time referred to shall, during the period of summer time, be deemed, subject as hereinafter provided, to be the time as fixed for general purposes by this Act.

(3) Nothing in this Act shall affect the use of West-European time for purposes of astronomy, meteorology, or navigation, or affect the construction of any document mentioning or referring to a point of time in connection with any of those purposes.

##### 2 Limits of period of summer time.

**2.**—For the purposes of this Act the period of summer time shall be taken to be the period beginning at two o'clock, West-European time, in the morning of the day next following the third Saturday in April, or, if that day is Easter Day, the day next following the second Saturday in April, and ending at two o'clock, West-European time, in the morning of the day next following the third Saturday in September.

##### 3 Definition of West-European time.

**3.**—In this Act the expression “West-European time” means Greenwich mean time.

##### 4 Short Title and Duration.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Summer Time Act, 1923.

(2) This Act shall continue in force until the thirty-first day of December, nineteen hundred and twenty-three, and no longer, unless the Oireachtas otherwise determines.
