---
title: "Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act , 1983"
identifier: "IE-1983-act-12"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1983-06-05"
last_updated: "1983-06-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1983/act/12"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Chuideachta Forbartha Aerfort Neamhchustam na Sionna Teoranta (Leasú), 1983"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1983/12"
---
# Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act , 1983

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act—

“the Act of 1970” means the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act, 1970;

“the Act of 1980” means the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act, 1980;

“the Company” means the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited;

“the Principal Act” means the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited Act, 1959.

(2) References in this Act to a former Rural District shall be construed as a reference to that District as constituted immediately before the 1st day of October, 1925.

(3) The Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited Acts, 1959 to 1980, and this Act shall be construed as one.

##### 2 Amendment of section 2 of Principal Act.

**2.**—So much of section 2 of the Principal Act (as amended by section 2 of the Act of 1980) as provides that the aggregate of the amounts which the Minister for Finance may subscribe under that section in taking up shares of the Company shall not exceed £80,000,000 is hereby repealed and, in lieu thereof, it is hereby enacted that the aggregate of the amounts so subscribed shall not exceed £120,000,000.

##### 3 Increase of grants under section 8 of Principal Act and section 2 of Act of 1970 to Company.

**3.**—Section 3 of the Act of 1980 is hereby repealed and, in lieu thereof, it is hereby enacted that the aggregate amount of grants to be made to the Company under section 8 of the Principal Act and section 2 of the Act of 1970 shall not exceed £60,000,000.

##### 4 Advances to Company by the Minister for Finance.

**4.**—Section 4 of the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act, 1978, is hereby repealed and, in lieu thereof, it is hereby enacted that the aggregate amount of advances under section 4 (1) of the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act, 1963, and advances under section 4 of the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act, 1961, shall not exceed £25,000,000.

##### 5 Amendment of section 2 of Act of 1970.

**5.**—Section 2 of the Act of 1970 is hereby amended by the substitution in subsection (1) for “in the counties of Limerick, Clare (excluding the airport) and Tipperary (North Riding), and the county borough of Limerick” of “in the counties of Limerick, Clare (excluding the airport) and Tipperary (North Riding), and in the Birr Urban District, the District Electoral Divisions of Banagher, Birr Rural, Broughal, Cloghan, Derrinboy, Derryad, Dromoyle, Drumcullen, Eglish, Ferbane, Gallen, Huntston, Kilcolman, Kilcormac, Killyon, Kinnitty, Knockbarron, Lea, Letter, Lusmagh, Mounterin, Seirkieran, Shannonbridge and Shannonharbour in the former Rural District of Birr No. 1 and the District Electoral Divisions of Aghancon, Ballincor, Barna, Cangort, Cullenwaine, Dunkerrin, Ettagh, Gorteen, Mountheaton, Roscomroe, Shinrone, Templeharry and Tulla in the former Rural District of Roscrea No. 2, all in the county of Offaly, and in the County borough of Limerick”, and the said subsection, as so amended, is set out in the Table to this section.

TABLE

(1) The Minister for Industry and Commerce, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, may, out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas, make grants to the Company to enable it to meet the running expenses of the Company in respect of its functions in relation to industrial development in the counties of Limerick, Clare (excluding the airport) and Tipperary (North Riding), and in the Birr Urban District, the District Electoral Divisions of Banagher, Birr Rural, Broughal, Cloghan, Derrinboy, Derryad, Dromoyle, Drumcullen, Eglish, Ferbane, Gallen, Huntston, Kilcolman, Kilcormac, Killyon, Kinnitty, Knockbarron, Lea, Letter, Lusmagh, Mounterin, Seirkieran, Shannonbridge and Shannonharbour in the former Rural District of Birr No. 1 and the District Electoral Divisions of Aghancon, Ballincor, Barna, Cangort, Cullenwaine, Dunkerrin, Ettagh, Gorteen, Mountheaton, Roscomroe, Shinrone, Templeharry and Tulla in the former Rural District of Roscrea No. 2, all in the county of Offaly, and in the county borough of Limerick.

##### 6 Amendment of section 4 of Act of 1970.

**6.**—Section 4 of the Act of 1970 is hereby amended by the substitution in subsection (1) for “in the counties of Limerick, Clare, Tipperary (North Riding) and the county borough of Limerick” of “in the counties of Limerick, Clare, Tipperary (North Riding), and in the Birr Urban District, the District Electoral Divisions of Banagher, Birr Rural, Broughal, Cloghan, Derrinboy, Derryad, Dromoyle, Drumcullen, Eglish, Ferbane, Gallen, Huntston, Kilcolman, Kilcormac, Killyon, Kinnitty, Knockbarron, Lea, Letter, Lusmagh, Mounterin, Seirkieran, Shannonbridge and Shannonharbour in the former Rural District of Birr No. 1 and the District Electoral Divisions of Aghancon, Ballincor, Barna, Cangort, Cullenwaine, Dunkerrin, Ettagh, Gorteen, Mountheaton, Roscomroe, Shinrone, Templeharry and Tulla in the former Rural District of Roscrea No. 2, all in the county of Offaly, and in the county borough of Limerick”, and the said subsection, as so amended, is set out in the Table to this section.

TABLE

(1) Notwithstanding section 3 of this Act, the Authority may delegate to the Company some or all of such powers as the Authority may have to provide financial assistance to or in respect of an industrial undertaking or in respect of housing for employees in industry in the counties of Limerick, Clare and Tipperary (North Riding), and in the Birr Urban District, the District Electoral Divisions of Banagher, Birr Rural, Broughal, Cloghan, Derrinboy, Derryad, Dromoyle, Drumcullen, Eglish, Ferbane, Gallen, Huntston, Kilcolman, Kilcormac, Killyon, Kinnitty, Knockbarron, Lea, Letter, Lusmagh, Mounterin, Seirkieran, Shannonbridge and Shannonharbour in the former Rural District of Birr No. 1 and in the District Electoral Divisions of Aghancon, Ballincor, Barna, Cangort, Cullenwaine, Dunkerrin, Ettagh, Gorteen, Mountheaton, Roscomroe, Shinrone, Templeharry and Tulla in the former Rural District of Roscrea No. 2, all in the county of Offaly, and in the county borough of Limerick.

##### 7 Short title and collective citation.

**7.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act, 1983.

(2) The Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited Acts, 1959 to 1980, and this Act may be cited together as the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited Acts, 1959 to 1983.
