---
title: "Control of Exports (Temporary Provisions) Act , 1956"
identifier: "IE-1956-act-1"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1956-02-09"
last_updated: "1956-02-09"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1956/act/1"
title_ga: "An tAcht chun Onnmhaire a Rialú (Forála Sealadacha), 1956"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1956/1"
---
# Control of Exports (Temporary Provisions) Act , 1956

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“exportation” includes the exportation of goods brought into the State for transhipment, whether under bond or otherwise;

“goods” does not include an agricultural product or fishery product as defined in section 1 of the Agricultural and Fishery Products (Regulation of Export) Act, 1947 (No. 18 of 1947);

“licence” means a licence issued under an order made under section 2 of this Act;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Industry and Commerce.

##### 2 Prohibition of exportation of goods.

**2.**—(1) The Minister may, whenever and so often as he thinks fit, by order prohibit, subject to such exceptions, if any, as he may think proper, the exportation of goods of any specified description, save under and in accordance with a licence.

(2) The Minister may, after consultation with the Minister for External Affairs, by order prohibit, subject to such exceptions, if any, as he may think proper, the exportation of goods of any specified description to a specified destination, save under and in accordance with a licence.

(3) An order made under this section may make provision for such other matters as appear to the Minister necessary for securing the due operation and enforcement of the order.

(4) The Minister may revoke or amend an order made under this section including this subsection.

(5) An order made under this section shall cease to have effect on the expiration of twelve months from its commencement.

(6) Every order made under this section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made, and if a resolution annulling such order is passed by either such House at any time during the currency of such order, such order shall be annulled accordingly, but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under such order.

##### 3 Licences.

**3.**—(1) The Minister may issue or refuse a licence at his discretion.

(2) The Minister may attach to a licence such conditions as he shall think proper and shall specify in the licence.

(3) The Minister may revoke a licence.

(4) Every person who, for the purpose of obtaining for himself or any other person a licence, makes any statement or representation which is to his knowledge false or misleading in any material respect shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding one hundred pounds.

(5) An offence under this section may be prosecuted by the Minister.

##### 4 Transfer of powers of Minister to another Minister.

**4.**—(1) The Government may, from time to time, by order transfer to and vest in another Minister all the powers conferred by this Act on the Minister, so far as such powers relate to or are concerned with any particular goods specified in such order.

(2) Whenever the powers of the Minister under this Act in relation to any particular goods are for the time being vested in another Minister by virtue of an order under subsection (1) of this section, the Government may by order retransfer to and revest in the Minister the said powers, so far as the same relate to or are concerned with the said particular goods.

(3) The Government may at any time by order amend any order previously made under this section including this subsection.

(4) Whenever and so long as the powers conferred on the Minister by this Act, are, so far as they relate to or are concerned with any particular goods, vested in another Minister by virtue of an order made under this section, then the references in sections 2 and 3 of this Act to the Minister shall in relation to the said particular goods be construed as references to the Minister in whom such powers are so vested.

(5) No transfer or retransfer under this section of powers shall prejudice or affect the validity, operation or duration of any order made or thing done in exercise of such powers before such transfer or retransfer (as the case may be) by the Minister in whom such powers were for the time being vested, and references in any such order to the Minister by whom such order was made shall be construed and have effect as references to the Minister in whom such powers are for the time being vested.

##### 5 Expenses.

**5.**—All expenses incurred by the Minister or by any other Minister under this Act shall, to such extent as may be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

##### 6 Repeals.

**6.**—(1) The enactments mentioned in the Schedule to this Act are hereby repealed.

(2) Subsection (1) of this section shall come into operation on the 1st day of April, 1956.

##### 7 Short title and duration.

**7.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Control of Exports (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1956.

(2) This Act shall continue in force for a period of three years and shall then expire.

## SCHEDULE. Enactments Repealed.

| Number and Year. | Short title. |
| --- | --- |
| No. 13 of 1934. | Sheepskin (Control of Export) Act, 1934. |
| No. 5 of 1938. | Sheepskin (Control of Export) (Amendment) Act, 1938. |
| No. 6 of 1938. | Scrap Iron (Control of Export) Act, 1938. |
