---
title: "Local Loans Fund (Amendment) Act , 1987"
identifier: "IE-1987-act-19"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1987-11-09"
last_updated: "1987-11-09"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1987/act/19"
title_ga: "Acht Chiste na nIasachtaí Áitiúla (Leasú), 1987"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1987/19"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Local Loans Fund (Amendment) Act , 1987

##### 1 Waiver of sums advanced under Local Loans Fund Act, 1935.

**1.**—Where any sum is, or, before the passing of this Act, has been, advanced on foot of a local loan under section 4 of the Local Loans Fund Act, 1935, the Minister for Finance may, if it seems to him desirable so to do, direct that repayment of the whole, or such part as the Minister may specify, of—

(*a*) such sum, or

(*b*) the balance at the time of the direction remaining unpaid,

be waived together with the whole, or such part as may be so specified, of the interest on such sum then unpaid.

##### 2 Statement by Minister for Finance.

**2.**—(1) The Minister for Finance shall, from time to time, lay before each House of the Oireachtas a statement in accordance with *subsection (2)* of this section.

(2) Every statement of the Minister pursuant to this section shall specify, in relation to each category of local loan under section 4 of the Local Loans Fund Act, 1935, the repayment of loans in which category has, pursuant to *section 1* of this Act, been waived in whole or in part, the following matters:—

(*a*) the total number of such loans;

(*b*) the total amount advanced in respect of such loans;

(*c*) the total amount of principal, the repayment of which is being waived pursuant to the said *section 1*; and

(*d*) the total amount of interest, the repayment of which is being waived pursuant to the said *section 1*.

##### 3 Repeals.

**3.**—Section 14 of the Local Loans Fund Act, 1935, and section 10 (6) of the Housing (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1979, are hereby repealed.

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Local Loans Fund (Amendment) Act, 1987.

(2) The Local Loans Fund Acts, 1935 to 1986, and this Act may be cited together as the Local Loans Fund Acts, 1935 to 1987.
