---
title: "Harbours Act  1976"
identifier: "IE-1976-act-5"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1976-03-16"
last_updated: "1976-03-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1976/act/5"
title_ga: "An tAcht Cuanta, 1976"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1976/5"
---
# Harbours Act  1976

##### 1 Establishment of Bantry Bay Harbour Commissioners.

**1.**—(1) There shall, by virtue of this section, be established a harbour authority for the harbour specified in the Table to this section.

(2) The harbour authority established by this section shall be known as the Bantry Bay Harbour Commissioners.

(3) The powers, functions, duties, assets, rights and liabilities of the council of the county of Cork, in so far as they relate to the pier at Bantry shall, on such day as the Minister may by order appoint, be transferred to the Bantry Bay Harbour Commissioners.

(4) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, the functions, duties and powers in relation to Castletownbere Fishery Harbour Centre conferred on the Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries by the Fishery Harbour Centres Act, 1968, shall continue to be exercised by that Minister.

The harbour, the limits of which are the area, including all tidal inlets, bounded by a straight line drawn from Sheep's Head to Crow Head both in the county of Cork and the line of high water, which area is known as Bantry Bay.

##### 2 Amendment of First Schedule to Principal Act.

**2.**—(1) The First Schedule to the Harbours Act, 1946, is hereby amended by the insertion in the first, second and third columns, respectively, of Part II of that Schedule after the fourth entry therein of:

“

| Bantry Bay Harbour Commissioners. | The council of the county of Cork. | Bantry Chamber of Commerce. |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  | The Town Commissioners of the town of Bantry. |  |

”

(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section, Parts IV to X of the Harbours Act, 1946, and the Second Schedule to that Act shall come into operation on such day or days as, by order or orders made by the Minister under this section, may be fixed therefor either generally or with reference to any particular purpose or provision and different days may be so fixed for different purposes and different provisions.

##### 3 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Harbours Act, 1976.

(2) The Harbours Acts, 1946 and 1947, and this Act shall be construed together and may be cited together as the Harbours Acts, 1946 to 1976.
