---
title: "Údarás na Gaeltachta (Amendment) Act , 1993"
identifier: "IE-1993-act-2"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1993-03-06"
last_updated: "1993-03-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1993/act/2"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Údarás na Gaeltachta (Leasú), 1993"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1993/2"
---
# Údarás na Gaeltachta (Amendment) Act , 1993

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Minister” means the Minister for Arts, Culture and the Gaeltacht;

“the Principal Act” means the Údarás na Gaeltachta Act, 1979;

“an tÚdarás” means Údarás na Gaeltachta.

##### 2 Grants to an tÚdarás.

**2.**—The Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution of the following section for section 22:

“22.—In each financial year there may be paid by the Minister to an tÚdarás out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas a grant or grants of such amount or amounts as the Minister, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, may fix to enable an tÚdarás to meet any expenditure incurred by it in the performance of its functions.”.

##### 3 Advances to an tÚdarás.

**3.**—(1) Any advance made to an tÚdarás under section 23 of the Principal Act before the commencement of this Act shall not be repayable nor shall interest be payable thereon.

(2) Any advance made to Gaeltarra Éireann under the Gaeltacht Industries Acts, 1957 to 1977, after the 1st day of April, 1965, shall not be repayable nor shall interest be payable thereon.

(3) Subsection (1), paragraphs (*a*) and (*c*) of subsection (2) and subsections (3) and (4) of the said section 23 are hereby repealed.

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Údarás na Gaeltachta (Amendment) Act, 1993.

(2) The Údarás na Gaeltachta Acts, 1979 to 1989, and this Act may be cited together as the Údarás na Gaeltachta Acts, 1979 to 1993.
