---
title: "Imposition of Duties (Confirmation of Orders)(No. 2) Act , 1950"
identifier: "IE-1950-act-17"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1950-06-22"
last_updated: "1950-06-22"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1950/act/17"
title_ga: "An tAcht d'Fhorchur Dleacht (Orduithe a Dhaingniú)(Uimh. 2), 1950"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1950/17"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Imposition of Duties (Confirmation of Orders)(No. 2) Act , 1950

##### 1 Confirmation of Orders.

**1.**—(1) The several Orders mentioned in the third column of the Schedule to this Act, and made under the Emergency Imposition of Duties Act, 1932 (No. 16 of 1932), are hereby confirmed.

(2) The particulars stated in the second and fourth columns, respectively, of the Schedule to this Act in relation to the Orders mentioned in the third column of the said Schedule are inserted in the said Schedule solely to facilitate reference to and identification of the said Orders, and, accordingly, nothing contained in the said second column or the said fourth column shall affect the construction or limit or control the operation of this section and the third column of the said Schedule.

##### 2 Short title.

**2.**—This Act may be cited as the Imposition of Duties (Confirmation of Orders) (No. 2) Act, 1950.

## SCHEDULE. Ref. No. Number and Year of the Statutory Instruments Short Title General Subject-matter 1 No. 273 of 1949 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 245) Order, 1949. Imposition of duty on component parts of buckets, cans and pails. 2 No. 294 of 1949 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 246) Order, 1949. Variation of duty on certain articles of personal clothing. 3 No. 296 of 1949 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 238) (Amendment) Order, 1949. Amendment of Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 238) Order, 1949 (S.I. No. 12 of 1949). 4 No. 305 of 1949 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 247) Order, 1949. Imposition of duty on certain elastics. 5 No. 5 of 1950 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 248) Order, 1950. Variation of duty on certain files and hacksaw blades. 6 No. 14 of 1950 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 249) Order, 1950. Imposition of duty on certain ungalvanised buckets, cans and pails. 7 No. 22 of 1950 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 250) Order, 1950. Variation of duty on certain wireless telegraphy apparatus. 8 No. 64 of 1950 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 251) Order, 1950. Imposition of duty on certain wall-board. 9 No. 88 of 1950 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 252) Order, 1950. Variation of duty on certain wall-board. 10 No. 94 of 1950 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 253) Order, 1950. Variation of duty on certain shirts.
