---
title: "International Development Association (Amendment) Act , 1985"
identifier: "IE-1985-act-21"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1985-12-21"
last_updated: "1985-12-21"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1985/act/21"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Chomhlachas Forbartha Idirnáisiúnta (Leasú), 1985"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1985/21"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# International Development Association (Amendment) Act , 1985

##### 1 Amendment of section 3 of International Development Association Act, 1960.

**1.**—Section 3 of the International Development Association Act, 1960, is hereby amended by the substitution of the following paragraphs for paragraph (*i*) (inserted by the International Development Association (Amendment) Act, 1983) of subsection (2) (inserted by the International Development Association (Amendment) Act, 1980):

“(*i*) payments to the Association not exceeding in aggregate £8,330,000, in accordance with any arrangements made between the Government and the Association arising out of any Resolution of the Board of Governors of the Association on additional financial resources,

(*j*) payments under subparagraph (*i*) of paragraph (*c*) of Section 4 of Article VII of the Agreement.”.

##### 2 Payment to International Development Association of £1,500,000 for Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa.

**2.**—(1) Payments not exceeding in aggregate £1,500,000 may be made on behalf of the Government, as and when they become appropriate, to the International Development Association, out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof, as contributions in accordance with the provisions of Resolution No. 85-1, of the Board of Executive Directors of that Association, done at Washington, D.C., on the 21st day of May, 1985, to the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa established by that Resolution.

(2) For the purposes of the payments to the said Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa of the contributions provided for in *subsection (1)* of this section, the Minister for Finance may create and issue non-interest bearing notes of the State and any payments on behalf of the State in respect of such notes shall be made out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof.

##### 3 Short title and collective citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the International Development Association (Amendment) Act, 1985.

(2) The International Development Association Acts, 1960 to 1983, and this Act may be cited as the International Development Association Acts, 1960 to 1985.
