---
title: "Housing Act , 1926"
identifier: "IE-1926-act-31"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1926-07-16"
last_updated: "1926-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1926/act/31"
title_ga: "Acht na dTithe, 1926"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1926/31"
---
# Housing Act , 1926

##### 1 Definition of “Principal Act.”

**1.**—In this Act the expression “The Principal Act” means the Housing Act, 1925 (No. 12 of 1925).

##### 2 Amendment of sub-section (3) of section 3 of Principal Act.

**2.**—Sub-section (3) of section 3 of the Principal Act is hereby repealed and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that the aggregate amount of the grants to be made under the said section 3 shall not exceed the sum of £600,000.

##### 3 Amendment of section 6 of Principal Act.

**3.**—Section 6 of the Principal Act shall be construed and have effect and be deemed always to have had effect as if the words “or reconstruction” were inserted in the first clause of sub-section (1) thereof immediately after the words “assist the erection” now contained in that clause.

##### 4 Extension of period of operation of Principal Act.

**4.**—(1) Rule 5 of the First Schedule to the Principal Act shall have effect as though the words “three years and six months” were inserted therein in lieu of the words “eighteen months” now contained therein.

(2) The Note to Part I of the Second Schedule to the Principal Act shall have effect as though the words “three years and six months” were inserted therein in lieu of the words “eighteen months” wherever those words occur in that Note.

##### 5 Short title and citation.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Housing Act, 1926.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Housing Acts, 1925 and 1926.
