---
title: "Local Elections (Dissolved Authorities) Act , 1926"
identifier: "IE-1926-act-22"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1926-06-18"
last_updated: "1926-06-18"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1926/act/22"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Thoghacháin Áitiúla (Údaráis Scurtha), 1926"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1926/22"
---
# Local Elections (Dissolved Authorities) Act , 1926

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “the Minister” means the Minister for Local Government and Public Health, and

the expression “local authority” has the same meaning as in the Local Government Act, 1925 (No. 5 of 1925).

##### 2 Extension of time for new elections.

**2.**—(1) Save as is hereinafter provided, sub-section (5) of section 72 of the Local Government Act, 1925 (No. 5 of 1925) shall not apply to any of the local authorities mentioned in the Schedule to this Act (being local authorities dissolved under section 12 of the Local Government (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1923 (No. 9 of 1923)) and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted in respect of each of the said local authorities mentioned in the said Schedule to this Act that not later than the 31st day of March, 1929, the Minister shall by order cause a new election of members of such local authority to be held and that upon completion of such new election all the property, powers, and duties of such dissolved local authority shall vest in the body so elected, notwithstanding that the same may have been transferred under either of the said Acts hereinbefore mentioned to any other body, persons, or person.

(2) In the event of any of the said local authorities mentioned in the Schedule to this Act being dissolved under the said section 72 of the Local Government Act, 1925, at any time after a new election of members thereof has been held under this section, the said sub-section (5) of the said section 72 shall from and after such dissolution apply to the local authority so dissolved as if this Act had not been passed.

##### 3 Short title.

**3.**—This Act may be cited as the Local Elections (Dissolved Authorities) Act, 1926.

## SCHEDULE.

The guardians of the poor of the Dublin Union.

The council of the county borough of Dublin.

The council of the county borough of Cork.
