---
title: "Garda Síochána Act , 1972"
identifier: "IE-1972-act-2"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1972-02-29"
last_updated: "1972-02-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1972/act/2"
title_ga: "Acht an Gharda Síochána, 1972"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1972/2"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Garda Síochána Act , 1972

##### 1 Determination by Government of ranks of Garda Síochána and maximum number of persons of each rank.

**1.**—(1) The members of the Garda Síochána shall be divided into such ranks as the Government may determine from time to time by order.

(2) Each rank of the Garda Síochána shall consist of not more than such number of members of the Garda Síochána as the Government may determine from time to time by order.

(3) An order under this section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made and, if a resolution annulling the order is passed by either such House within the next twenty-one days on which that House has sat after the order is laid before it, the order shall be annulled accordingly but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.

##### 2 Repeals.

**2.**—In section 5 (2) of the Police Forces Amalgamation Act, 1925, the words “and shall consist of such officers and men as the Executive Council shall from time to time determine not exceeding the total numbers of officers and men respectively specified in the Third Schedule to this Act” and section 10 (1) of and the Third Schedule to that Act are hereby repealed as on and from the date of the making of the first order under section 1 of this Act.

##### 3 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Garda Síochána Act, 1972.

(2) The Garda Síochána Acts, 1923 to 1962, and this Act may be cited together as the Garda Síochána Acts, 1923 to 1972.

(3) The Garda Síochána Acts, 1923 to 1962, and this Act shall be construed together as one Act.
