---
title: "Conditions of Employment Act , 1944"
identifier: "IE-1944-act-12"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1944-04-26"
last_updated: "1944-04-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1944/act/12"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Choinníollacha Fostaíochta, 1944"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1944/12"
---
# Conditions of Employment Act , 1944

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Conditions of Employment Act, 1936. (No. 2 of 1936).

##### 2 Amendment of section 3 of the Principal Act.

**2.**—(1) Sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion before the words “nor the transport of persons or goods” of the words “nor fishing”.

(2) Sub-section (1) of this section shall be deemed to have come into operation on the date on which the Principal Act came into operation.

##### 3 Amendment of section 9 of the Principal Act.

**3.**—Section 9 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion therein after sub-section (2) of the following sub-section:—

“(2A) A prosecution for an offence under any section of this Act committed by an employer of a worker in relation to such worker may be brought at the suit of such worker or of any official of a trade union of which such worker is a member.”

##### 4 Amendment of section 43 of the Principal Act.

**4.**—(1) Sub-section (3) of section 43 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion before the words “the amount of time” of the words “(as respects workers doing continuous process shift work) the amount of time in any week for which any employer permits any worker to work after having completed fifty-six hours of work and (as respects all other workers)”.

(2) Sub-section (1) of this section shall be deemed to have come into operation on the date on which the Principal Act came into operation.

##### 5 Savers in relation to certain proceedings.

**5.**—Where any proceedings were commenced before the 16th day of February, 1944, to recover any moneys alleged to be payable by reason of sub-section (2) of section 43 of the Principal Act to a worker doing continuous process shift work—

(*a*) if the proceedings were finally determined before the date of the passing of this Act, section 4 of this Act shall not operate to invalidate the determination,

(*b*) if the proceedings were not finally determined before the date of the passing of this Act, any court before which the proceedings may come shall proceed as if section 4 of this Act had not been enacted.

##### 6 Short title and collective citation.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Conditions of Employment Act, 1944.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Conditions of Employment Acts, 1936 and 1944.
