---
title: "Electoral (Amendment) Act , 1973"
identifier: "IE-1973-act-3"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1973-04-09"
last_updated: "1973-04-09"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1973/act/3"
title_ga: "An tAcht Toghcháin (Leasú), 1973"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1973/3"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Electoral (Amendment) Act , 1973

##### 1 Short title and collective citations.

**1.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Electoral (Amendment) Act, 1973.

(2) The Electoral Acts, 1923 to 1972, and so much of this Act as amends those Acts may be cited together as the Electoral Acts, 1923 to 1973.

(3) The Local Elections Acts, 1963 to 1972, and so much of this Act as amends those Acts may be cited together as the Local Elections Acts, 1963 to 1973.

(4) The Seanad Electoral (University Members) Acts, 1937 and 1972, and so much of this Act as amends those Acts may be cited together as the Seanad Electoral (University Members) Acts, 1937 to 1973.

(5) The Presidential Elections Acts, 1937 to 1972, and so much of this Act as amends those Acts may be cited together as the Presidential Elections Acts, 1937 to 1973.

(6) The Referendum Acts, 1942 to 1972, and so much of this Act as amends those Acts may be cited together as the Referendum Acts, 1942 to 1973.

##### 2 Amendment of Electoral Act, 1963.

**2.**—The Electoral Act, 1963, is hereby amended by the substitution of “eighteen years” for “twenty-one years”—

(*a*) in subsection (1) and paragraph (*a*) (inserted by the Local Elections Act, 1972) of subsection (2) of section 5,

(*b*) in paragraphs (*b*) and (*c*) of section 26 (2),

(*c*) in paragraphs (*b*) and (*c*) of section 51 (2), and

(*d*) in paragraphs (*b*) and (*c*) of section 70 (2).

##### 3 Amendment of Seanad Electoral (University Members) Act, 1937.

**3.**—The Seanad Electoral (University Members) Act, 1937, is hereby amended by the substitution of “eighteen years” for “twenty-one years”—

(*a*) in subsections (1) and (2) of section 7, and

(*b*) in Rule 20 of the First Schedule.

##### 4 Removal of disqualification for membership of local authorities and certain related bodies by persons aged between 18 and 21 years.

**4.**—(1) Article 12 (4) (*a*) of the Schedule to the Local Government (Application of Enactments) Order, 1898, is hereby amended by the substitution of “under the age of eighteen years” for “an infant”.

(2) Section 3 of the Agriculture (Amendment) Act, 1944, and section 2 of the Vocational Education (Amendment) Act, 1944 (which sections apply the said Article 12 (4) (*a*) to committees of agriculture and vocational education committees, respectively), shall have effect as if the references therein to Article 12 of the said Schedule as amended by any subsequent enactment were references to the said Article 12 as amended by any subsequent enactment including subsection (1) of this section.
