---
title: "Trade Loans (Guarantee)(Amendment) Act , 1932"
identifier: "IE-1932-act-12"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1932-07-22"
last_updated: "1932-07-22"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1932/act/12"
title_ga: "An tAcht Iasachtaí Trádála (Urraíocht)(Leasú), 1932"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1932/12"
---
# Trade Loans (Guarantee)(Amendment) Act , 1932

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Act, 1924 (No. 41 of 1924).

##### 2 Extension of time for guarantees, etc., under the Principal Act.

**2.**—(1) Sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Trade Loans (Guarantee) (Amendment) Act, 1931 (No. 21 of 1931), is hereby repealed, and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that no guarantee shall be given under section 1 of the Principal Act after the 31st day of July, 1933.

(2) Sub-section (2) of section 2 of the said Trade Loans (Guarantee) (Amendment) Act, 1931, is hereby repealed, and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that no loan shall be granted and no guarantee shall be given under section 2 of the Principal Act after the 31st day of July, 1933.

##### 3 Limitation of time for making applications.

**3.**—(1) The Minister for Industry and Commerce may, if he thinks fit so to do, publish in the *Iris Oifigiúil* a notice stating that no applications for guarantees under section 1 of the Principal Act as amended by this Act or for loans or guarantees under section 2 of the Principal Act as so amended made after a date specified in that behalf in such notice will be entertained by the said Minister.

(2) When a notice has been published under the foregoing sub-section the Minister for Industry and Commerce shall not entertain any such application as is mentioned in the said sub-section which is made after the date specified as aforesaid in such notice.

##### 4 Short title and citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Trade Loans (Guarantee) (Amendment) Act, 1932.

(2) The Trade Loans (Guarantee) Acts, 1924 to 1931, and this Act may be cited together as the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Acts, 1924 to 1932.
