---
title: "National University of Ireland Act , 1969"
identifier: "IE-1969-act-26"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1969-08-02"
last_updated: "1969-08-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1969/act/26"
title_ga: "Acht Ollscoil na hÉireann, 1969"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1969/26"
---
# National University of Ireland Act , 1969

##### 1 Extension of term of office.

**1.**—(1) The Government may by order declare that the term of office of members of the Senate of the National University of Ireland (in this section referred to as the Senate) in office on the date of the order shall be extended until a date specified in the order, being a date not later than twelve months after the date on which such term of office would, but for the order, expire, and thereupon, notwithstanding anything contained in any enactment (including any charter or statute of that University), the term of office of such members shall be extended until the date so specified.

(2) No order shall be made under this section save on the application of the Senate and in relation to the membership at the date of the passing of this Act.

(3) Where, before the date of an order made under this section, there has not been taken any step prescribed by the statutes of the National University of Ireland in relation to the nomination, appointment and election of members of the Senate required, but for such order, to take place, it shall be deemed to have been proper not to take such step.

##### 2 Laying of order before Houses of Oireachtas.

**2.**—Every order made under this Act shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made and, if a resolution annulling the order is passed by either such House within the next subsequent twenty-one days on which that House has sat after the order is laid before it, the order shall be annulled accordingly but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.

##### 3 Short title.

**3.**—This Act may be cited as the National University of Ireland Act, 1969.
