---
title: "Commissioners of Public Works in Ireland (Acceptance of Trusteeship) Act  1978"
identifier: "IE-1978-act-15"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1978-06-28"
last_updated: "1978-06-28"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1978/act/15"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Choimisinéirí na nOibreacha Poiblí in Éirinn (Iontaobhas a Ghlacadh), 1978"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1978/15"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Commissioners of Public Works in Ireland (Acceptance of Trusteeship) Act  1978

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Commissioners” means the Commissioners of Public Works in Ireland;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Finance.

##### 2 Acceptance by Commissioners of trusteeship of Barretstown Castle Trust.

**2.**—The Commissioners may, with the consent of the Minister, accept the trusteeship and act as trustees of the trust fund known as the Barretstown Castle Trust which was established by an indenture dated the 21st day of January, 1977, and made between Abraham Kramer, Harold William Bailey, Alexis FitzGerald and Robert William Roche Johnston (therein referred to as the Foundation Trustees) of the one part and Abraham Kramer, Harold William Bailey, Alexis FitzGerald and Robert William Roche Johnston (therein referred to as the Trustees) of the other part and may hold the funds of the said trust and all property real and personal comprised therein upon the trusts and with and subject to the powers and provisions of that indenture.

##### 3 Power to Commissioners to accept trusteeships and act as trustees.

**3.**—The Commissioners may, with the consent of the Minister, accept the trusteeship and act as trustees (with or without any other person) of any trust which has been, or may hereafter be, established by any deed, testamentary disposition or other instrument, and also may, with the like consent, hold the property, real or personal, which is subject to such trusts upon the trusts and with and subject to the powers and provisions affecting the same.

##### 4 Land vested in Commissioners as trustees not to be State land.

**4.**—Any land which is vested in the Commissioners as trustees pursuant to the provisions of this Act shall not, of itself, cause the said land to be State land within the meaning of the State Property Act, 1954.

##### 5 Short title.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Commissioners of Public Works in Ireland (Acceptance of Trusteeship) Act, 1978.
