---
title: "Irish Nationality and Citizenship (Amendment) Act , 1937"
identifier: "IE-1937-act-39"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1937-12-15"
last_updated: "1937-12-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1937/act/39"
title_ga: "Acht Náisiúntachta agus Saoránachta Éireann (Leasú), 1937"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1937/39"
---
# Irish Nationality and Citizenship (Amendment) Act , 1937

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Irish Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1935 (No. 13 of 1935).

##### 2 Removal of limitation on time for registration.

**2.**—(1) So much of sub-section (5) of section 2 of the Principal Act as limits the time within which registration in accordance with that sub-section may be effected is hereby repealed as from the passing of the Principal Act and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that:—

(*a*) registration in accordance with the said sub-section (5) may (subject to the provisions of the next following paragraph of this sub-section) be effected and shall be deemed always to have been capable of being effected at any time after the passing of the Principal Act, whether before or after the passing of this Act, and

(*b*) no person shall be registered in accordance with the said sub-section (5) after the passing of this Act without the consent of the Minister for Justice.

(2) The reference, in paragraph (*b*) of sub-section (4) of the said section 2 of the Principal Act, to the next following sub-section of that section shall be construed and have effect and be deemed always to have had effect as referring to that sub-section as amended by this section.

##### 3 Short title and citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Irish Nationality and Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 1937.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Irish Nationality and Citizenship Acts, 1935 and 1937.
