---
title: "Medical Act , 1925"
identifier: "IE-1925-act-2"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1925-02-21"
last_updated: "1925-02-21"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1925/act/2"
title_ga: "An tAcht Dochtúireachta, 1925"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1925/2"
---
# Medical Act , 1925

##### 1 Rights, etc., of persons registered and of registration authorities under Medical Acts.

**1.**—(1) All persons registered under the Medical Acts (whether admitted to the register before or after the passing of this Act) shall in Saorstát Eireann have the like rights, privileges, and immunities and be subject to the like obligations as persons so registered had and were subject to in Ireland prior to the establishment of Saorstát Eireann.

(2) The General Council and its officers shall have and may exercise in relation to persons and matters in Saorstát Eireann all the like powers, jurisdictions, and authorities under the Medical Acts as that Council and its officers prior to the establishment of Saorstát Eireann had and might exercise under these Acts in relation to persons and matters in Ireland.

(3) The Branch Council for Ireland and its officers shall have and may exercise in relation to persons and matters in Saorstát Eireann the like powers, jurisdictions, and authorities under the Medical Acts as that Branch Council and its officers prior to the establishment of Saorstát Eireann had and might exercise under those Acts in relation to persons and matters in Ireland.

##### 2 Continuance of constitution of councils and of qualifications for registration.

**2.**—(1) The General Council and the Branch Council for Ireland shall respectively continue to be constituted and the members thereof shall continue to be nominated, chosen, and elected in like manner as those Councils and members respectively were constituted, nominated, chosen, and elected prior to the establishment of Saorstát Eireann.

(2) Universities and medical corporations in Saorstát Eireann shall continue to have the like powers of granting diplomas and holding qualifying examinations for registration under the Medical Acts as they respectively had prior to the establishment of Saorstát Eireann.

##### 3 Effect of Medical Acts in Saorstát Eireann.

**3.**—The Medical Acts shall have effect in Saorstát Eireann subject to and in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

##### 4 Short title, construction, citation, and duration.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Medical Act, 1925.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Medical Acts, and those Acts and this Act may be cited together as the Medical Acts.

(3) This Act shall continue in force for one year from the passing thereof and shall then expire.
