---
title: "Health Act , 1954"
identifier: "IE-1954-act-23"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1954-07-29"
last_updated: "1954-07-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1954/act/23"
title_ga: "An tAcht Sláinte, 1954"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1954/23"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Health Act , 1954

##### 1 Amendment of section 15 of Health Act, 1953.

**1.**—Section 15 of the Health Act 1953 (No. 26 of 1953) (which provides for institutional and specialist services) is hereby amended by the insertion at the end of subsection (3) of “and, until such date as may be fixed by the Minister by order, to any person insured under the Social Welfare Act, 1952 (No. 11 of 1952), who, if on the 31st day of July, 1954, but by reference to his current circumstances for the purposes of insurance, he had duly claimed the hospital and convalescent home benefit which on the said 31st day of July stood prescribed under section 25 of that Act, would have been entitled to grant of his claim”.

##### 2 Amendment of section 22 of Health Act, 1953.

**2.**—Section 22 of the Health Act, 1953 (which provides for regulations in relation to health services) is hereby amended by the insertion after subsection (1) of the following subsection:

“(1A) Regulations under this section may, in particular, provide for services being made available for a particular class of persons only (including, as respects sections 15 and 16 of this Act, a class which is a sub-class of any of the classes mentioned in subsection (2) of section 15).”

##### 3 Amendment of section 25 of Health Act, 1953.

**3.**— Section 25 of the Health Act, 1953 (which provides for institutional services at the choice of the patient, etc.) is hereby amended by the insertion in each of subsections (2) to (6) of “(save, until such date as may be fixed by the Minister by order, in the case of any person insured under the Social Welfare Act, 1952 (No. 11 of 1952), who, if on the 31st day of July, 1954, but by reference to his current circumstances for the purposes of insurance, he had duly claimed the hospital and convalescent home benefit which on the said 31st day of July stood prescribed under section 25 of that Act, would have been entitled to grant of his claim)” before “a sum of six shillings for each day during which the services are availed of”.

##### 4 Short title, commencement and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Health Act, 1954.

(2) This Act shall come into operation on such day as the Minister for Health appoints by order.

(3) The Health Acts, 1947 and 1953, and this Act may be cited together as the Health Acts, 1947 to 1954.
