---
title: "Local Government (Sanitary Services)(Joint Burial Boards) Act , 1952"
identifier: "IE-1952-act-22"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1952-12-10"
last_updated: "1952-12-10"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1952/act/22"
title_ga: "An tAcht Rialtais Áitiúil (Seirbhísí Sláintíochta)(Comhbhoird Adhlacain), 1952"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1952/22"
---
# Local Government (Sanitary Services)(Joint Burial Boards) Act , 1952

##### 1 Definition of joint burial board.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “joint burial board” means the governing body of a united district formed under the provisions of the Public Health (Ireland) Act, 1878 which possesses the powers and is subject to the duties conferred and imposed on a burial board by the said Act.

##### 2 Compulsory acquisition of land by a joint burial board.

**2.**—In order to remove doubts it is hereby declared that the powers of a joint burial board include and have always included the powers of a sanitary authority acting as burial board for a sanitary district to acquire land compulsorily for the purposes of providing a new burial ground or making additions to a burial ground, and that every enactment which enables or for the time being enabled a sanitary authority so acting to acquire land compulsorily for such purposes is and has been applicable to a joint burial board and that such powers are and were exercisable accordingly.

##### 3 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Local Government (Sanitary Services) (Joint Burial Boards) Act, 1952.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Local Government (Sanitary Services) Acts, 1878 to 1948.

(3) The Local Government (Sanitary Services) Acts, 1878 to 1948 and this Act may be cited together as the Local Government (Sanitary Services) Acts, 1878 to 1952.
