---
title: "Intoxicating Liquor Act  1999"
identifier: "IE-1999-act-32"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1999-12-15"
last_updated: "1999-12-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1999/act/32"
title_ga: "An tAcht Deochanna Meisciúla, 1999"
long_title_ga: "Acht do leasú agus do leathnú na nAchtanna Ceadúnúcháin, 1833 go 1997, do leasú agus do leathnú Achtanna Clárú na gClubanna, 1904 go 1995, agus do dhéanamh socrú i dtaobh nithe comhghaolmhara"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1999/32"
---
# Intoxicating Liquor Act  1999

##### 1 Millennium exemption.

**1.**—(1) Notwithstanding any provision of the Licensing Acts, 1833 to 1997, relating to prohibited hours, it shall be lawful for the holder of an on-licence—

(*a*) to sell or expose for sale any intoxicating liquor on any premises or any part of premises to which the on-licence relates, or

(*b*) to keep open such premises for the sale of intoxicating liquor, or

(*c*) to permit any intoxicating liquor to be consumed on such premises,

at any time or times between the hours of eleven o'clock in the evening of the 31st day of December, 1999, and half-past one o'clock in the morning of the 1st day of January, 2000.

(2) *Subsection (1)* of this section shall apply to clubs registered under the Registration of Clubs Acts, 1904 to 1995, in the same manner as it applies to the holders of on-licences under the Licensing Acts, 1833 to 1997.

(3) Section 7 (which relates to the time for consumption of intoxicating liquor supplied during permitted hours) of the Intoxicating Liquor Act, 1962, as amended by section 27 of the Intoxicating Liquor Act, 1988, shall apply to this section with effect from the end of the period of time referred to in *subsection (1)* of this section.

##### 2 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**2.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Intoxicating Liquor Act, 1999.

(2)(*a*) The Licensing Acts, 1833 to 1997, and this Act, in so far as this Act amends or extends those Acts, may be cited together as the Licensing Acts, 1833 to 1999, and shall be construed together as one.

(*b*) The Registration of Clubs Acts, 1904 to 1995, and this Act, in so far as this Act amends or extends those Acts, may be cited together as the Registration of Clubs Acts, 1904 to 1999, and shall be construed together as one.
