---
title: "Diseases of Animals Act , 1949"
identifier: "IE-1949-act-10"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1949-06-29"
last_updated: "1949-06-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1949/act/10"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Ghalair Ainmhithe, 1949"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1949/10"
---
# Diseases of Animals Act , 1949

##### 1 Total sum leviable under section 71 of Diseases of Animals Act, 1894.

**1.**—So much of section 1 of the Diseases of Animals Act, 1932 (No.14 of 1932), as fixes the total sum which may be levied under section 71 of the Diseases of Animals Act, 1894, shall cease to have effect in relation to any moneys so levied after the passing of this Act, and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that the total sum which may be so levied after the passing of this Act shall not exceed a sum equivalent to a poundage of two pence in the pound on the net annual value of the property in all the administrative counties in the State.

##### 2 Amendment of Poultry (Diseases) Act, 1934.

**2.**—(1) In this section—

the expression “the Act of 1934” means the Poultry (Diseases) Act, 1934 (No.25 of 1934);

the expression “the Act of 1938” means the Diseases of Animals Act, 1938 (No.17 of 1938).

(2) The definition contained in subsection (3) of this section is hereby substituted for the corresponding definition contained in section 1 of the Act of 1934, as amended by subsection (1) of section 2 of the Act of 1938, and the Act of 1934 (including that Act as amended by the Act of 1938) and the Act of 1938 shall be construed accordingly.

(3) The following is the definition referred to in subsection (2) of this section:

“the word ‘poultry’ means—

(*a*) domestic fowls, turkeys, ducks, geese, guinea-fowls, pigeons, pheasants and partridges, and

(*b*) any birds as respects which the Minister for Agriculture declares by order that they shall be deemed to be included in the word ‘poultry’ as defined by this section.”

##### 3 Short title and collective citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Diseases of Animals Act, 1949.

(2) The Diseases of Animals (Ireland) Acts, 1894 to 1945, and this Act may be cited together as the Diseases of Animals Acts, 1894 to 1949.
