---
title: "Grass Meal (Production)(Amendment) Act , 1959"
identifier: "IE-1959-act-25"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1959-08-06"
last_updated: "1959-08-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1959/act/25"
title_ga: "An tAcht Mine Féir (Tairgeadh)(Leasú), 1959"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1959/25"
---
# Grass Meal (Production)(Amendment) Act , 1959

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act—

“the Principal Act” means the Grass Meal (Production) Act, 1953;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Industry and Commerce.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act shall be construed together as one Act.

(3) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (2) of this section, a reference in the Principal Act to that Act shall, save where the context otherwise requires, be construed as including a reference to this Act.

##### 2 Formation and registration of Min Fhéir (1959) Teoranta.

**2.**—(1) As soon as may be after the passing of this Act the Minister shall, after consultation with the Minister for Finance, take all such steps as may be necessary or desirable to procure that a limited company conforming to the conditions laid down in the Principal Act, as amended by this Act, shall be formed and registered under the Companies Acts.

(2) The name of the company to be formed in pursuance of subsection (1) of this section shall be Min Fhéir (1959) Teoranta.

##### 3 Construction of references in the Principal Act to the Company.

**3.**—The Principal Act, as amended by this Act, shall have effect as if each reference therein to the Company were a reference to the Company formed in pursuance of subsection (1) of section 2 of this Act.

##### 4 Amendment of the Principal Act.

**4.**—(1) In subsection (2) of section 6 of the Principal Act “two hundred thousand pounds” shall be substituted for “one hundred thousand pounds”.

(2) The following subsection shall be inserted in section 9 of the Principal Act after subsection (2):

“(3) Where a person who is a director of the Company is nominated either as a candidate for election to either House of the Oireachtas or as a member of Seanad Éireann, he shall thereupon cease to be a director of the Company.”

##### 5 Repeals.

**5.**—The definition of “the Company” in section 2 of the Principal Act and section 5, subsection (1) of section 6, section 13 and section 14 of that Act are hereby repealed.

##### 6 Short title and collective citation.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Grass Meal (Production) (Amendment) Act, 1959.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Grass Meal (Production) Acts, 1953 and 1959.
