---
title: "Gaming Act , 1923"
identifier: "IE-1923-act-50"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1923-12-28"
last_updated: "1923-12-28"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1923/act/50"
title_ga: "An tAcht Cearrbhachais, 1923"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1923/50"
---
# Gaming Act , 1923

##### 1 Repeal of Section 2 of Gaming Act, 1835.

**1.**—Section 2 of the Gaming Act, 1835 (which makes money paid to the indorsee, holder, or assignee of securities given for consideration arising out of certain gaming transactions recoverable from the person to whom the securities were originally given) is hereby repealed.

##### 2 Prohibition of proceedings in respect of completed transactions.

**2.**—(1) No action or proceeding shall be brought or prosecuted in any court, nor shall any action or proceeding be entertained by any court, for the recovery of any money under the said section 2 of the Gaming Act, 1835, in respect of any transaction completed before the passing of this Act.

(2) Every action or proceeding for the recovery of money under the said section 2 of the Gaming Act, 1835, which was instituted before the passing of this Act and in which no final judgment shall have been given before the passing of this Act shall be discharged and made void subject to such order as to costs as the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall think fit to make.

(3) Nothing in this Act shall prejudice or affect the commencement or prosecution of any appeal from a final judgment given before the passing of this Act for the recovery of money under the said section 2 of the Gaming Act, 1835, or the enforcement of any such final judgment or of any order on an appeal from any such final judgment.

##### 3 Short Title.

**3.**—This Act may be cited as the Gaming Act, 1923.
