---
title: "Housing (Amendment) Act , 1960"
identifier: "IE-1960-act-13"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1960-05-24"
last_updated: "1960-05-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1960/act/13"
title_ga: "Acht na dTithe (Leasú), 1960"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1960/13"
---
# Housing (Amendment) Act , 1960

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Act of 1952” means the Housing (Amendment) Act, 1952;

“the Act of 1956” means the Housing (Amendment) Act, 1956;

“the Act of 1958” means the Housing (Amendment) Act, 1958.

##### 2 Continuance of certain sections.

**2.**—(1) The reference to the 1st day of April, 1960, contained (by virtue of section 6 of the Act of 1958) in paragraph (*a*) of subsection (1) of section 16 of the Housing (Amendment) Act, 1948, paragraph (*a*) of subsection (1) of section 20 of that Act and paragraph (*a*) of subsection (1) of section 24 of the Act of 1952 shall be construed as a reference to the 1st day of April, 1962.

(2) (*a*) The reference to the 1st day of April, 1960, contained (by virtue of section 6 of the Act of 1958) in paragraph (ii) of subsection (1) and paragraph (ii) of subsection (2) of section 11 of the Act of 1956 shall be construed as a reference to the 1st day of April, 1962.

(*b*) The reference to the 1st day of April, 1960, contained in subsection (2A) (inserted by section 12 of the Act of 1958) of section 11 of the Act of 1956 shall be construed as a reference to the 1st day of April, 1962.

(3) The reference to the 1st day of April, 1960, contained in section 9 of the Act of 1958 shall be construed as a reference to the 1st day of April, 1962.

(4) This section shall have and be deemed to have had effect as on and from the 1st day of April, 1960.

##### 3 Expenses.

**3.**—The expenses incurred by the Minister for Local Government in the administration of this Act shall, to such extent as may be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Housing (Amendment) Act, 1960.

(2) This Act in so far as it amends the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) Acts, 1932 to 1958, may be cited together therewith as the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) Acts, 1932 to 1960.
