---
title: "Pensions Act , 1952"
identifier: "IE-1952-act-27"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1952-12-17"
last_updated: "1952-12-17"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1952/act/27"
title_ga: "An tAcht Pinsean 1952"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1952/27"
---
# Pensions Act , 1952

##### 1 Minister.

**1.**—In this Act “the Minister” means the Minister for Defence.

##### 2 Pension to widow of Micheal Ó Ceallacháin.

**2.**—There shall be paid by the Minister, out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas, to Caitlín Bean Uí Cheallacháin, widow of Micheál Ó Ceallacháin, former Mayor of Limerick, an annual pension of five hundred pounds during her life.

##### 3 Pension to widow of Seoirse Mac Fhlannchadha.

**3.**—There shall be paid by the Minister, out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas, to Máire Bean Mhic Fhlannchadha, widow of Seoirse Mac Fhlannchadha, former Mayor of Limerick, an annual pension of five hundred pounds during her life.

##### 4 Gratuity to daughter of Tomás Mac Curtáin.

**4.**—There shall be paid by the Minister, out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas, to Síle Nic Curtáin, daughter of Tomás Mac Curtáin, former Lord Mayor of Cork, a gratuity of five hundred pounds.

##### 5 Commencement and payments.

**5.**—(1) A pension under this Act shall be deemed to have commenced on the 1st day of April, 1952, and there shall be paid, as soon as may be after the passing of this Act, the amount accrued thereon in respect of the period which commenced on the 1st day of April, 1952, and ended on the date of the passing of this Act.

(2) Any amount which accrues due in respect of a pension after the date of the passing of this Act shall be paid monthly in arrear.

##### 6 Short title.

**6.**—This Act may be cited as the Pensions Act, 1952.
