---
title: "Tea (Purchase and Importation)(Amendment) Act , 1966"
identifier: "IE-1966-act-14"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1966-06-30"
last_updated: "1966-06-30"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1966/act/14"
title_ga: "An tAcht Tae (Ceannach agus Allmhairiú)(Leasú), 1966"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1966/14"
---
# Tea (Purchase and Importation)(Amendment) Act , 1966

##### 1 Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Tea (Purchase and Importation) Act, 1958.

##### 2 Extension of meaning of “tea”.

**2.**—In the definition of “tea trader” in section 1 of the Principal Act and in section 4 of the Principal Act, “tea” shall include extracts, essences and concentrations of tea.

##### 3 Amendment of Principal Act.

**3.**—The Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion after section 8 of the following sections:

“Restrictions on importation and purchase of extracts, essences and concentrations of tea.

8A. (1) No person except the Company shall import any extract, essence or concentration of tea.

(2) The Company shall not import any extract, essence or concentration of tea unless the Company either—

(*a*) imports it direct from the country in which it was manufactured and the tea from which it was manufactured was produced in that country, or

(*b*) imports it under and in accordance with an authorisation given by the Minister.

(3) A person shall not purchase any extract, essence or concentration of tea for importation unless—

(*a*) the person is the Company, or a registered tea trader, and

(*b*) either—

(i) the extract, essence or concentration was purchased by the person in the country in which it was manufactured and the tea from which it was manufactured was produced in that country, or

(ii) the Minister has authorised the purchase.

(4) Subsections (1), (2) and (3) of this section do not apply to—

(*a*) an extract, essence or concentration of tea which is shown to the satisfaction of the Revenue Commissioners to have been manufactured in and, in the case of the importation of such extract, essence or concentration, to have been consigned from Northern Ireland, Great Britain, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man,

(*b*) an extract, essence or concentration of tea which is shown to the satisfaction of the Revenue Commissioners to be imported as a sample, or

(*c*) an extract, essence or concentration of tea—

(i) which is shown to the satisfaction of the Revenue Commissioners to be imported for the personal use of the importer or his household, and

(ii) which, if it exceeds one pound in weight, is imported under and in accordance with a licence granted by the Minister.

Company to act as agent for importation of extracts, essences and concentrations of tea.

8B. The Company shall, at the request of a registered tea trader, act as agent for the importation of extracts, essences and concentrations of tea which are purchased by the trader in the country in which they were manufactured, are manufactured from tea produced in that country and are imported direct from that country.”

##### 4 Amendment of section 42 of Customs Consolidation Act, 1876.

**4.**—Section 42 of the Customs Consolidation Act, 1876, shall have effect as if in the fourth paragraph of the Table of Prohibitions and Restrictions Inwards contained in that section “tea, or” were deleted.

##### 5 Short title, collective citation and commencement.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Tea (Purchase and Importation) (Amendment) Act, 1966.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Tea (Purchase and Importation) Acts, 1958 and 1966.

(3) This Act shall come into operation on the 1st day of July, 1966.
