---
title: "Local Government (Dublin) Act , 1935"
identifier: "IE-1935-act-10"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1935-03-29"
last_updated: "1935-03-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1935/act/10"
title_ga: "An tAcht Rialtais Áitiúla (Baile Átha Cliath), 1935"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1935/10"
---
# Local Government (Dublin) Act , 1935

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.** In this Act—

the expression “the Principal Act” means the Local Government (Dublin) Act, 1930 (No. 27 of 1930);

the expression “existing commercial member” means a person who, immediately before the passing of this Act, is a commercial member of the City Council;

every word and expression used in this Act to which a particular meaning is given in and for the purposes of the Principal Act has the meaning so given to it.

##### 2 Abolition of the commercial membership of the City Council.

**2.** The Principal Act is hereby amended as follows, that is to say:—

(*a*) sub-section (1) of section 31 is hereby repealed and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that the City Council shall consist of thirty-five members all of whom shall (subject to the provisions of this Act in relation to the existing commercial members) be elected in accordance with the Principal Act by the persons for the time being registered on the register of local government electors;

(*b*) all the members of the City Council shall be ordinary members for the purposes of the Principal Act, and all references in the Principal Act to ordinary members of the City Council or to the election of such members shall be construed accordingly;

(*c*) the following portions of the Principal Act are hereby repealed, that is to say, sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 32, sections 34 and 35, and sub-section (2) of section 36.

##### 3 Saving for existing commercial members.

**3.**—(1) The existing commercial members shall, on the passing of this Act, become and be ordinary members of the City Council and shall, for the purposes of the Principal Act as amended by this Act, be deemed to have been elected by the persons for the time being registered on the register of local government electors and shall retain their membership of the City Council accordingly.

(2) The existing commercial member who is an alderman immediately before the passing of this Act shall retain his title and status of alderman as if this Act had not been passed.

##### 4 Repeal of the Electoral (Dublin Commercial) Act, 1930.

**4.**—The Electoral (Dublin Commercial) Act, 1930 (No. 28 of 1930), is hereby repealed.

##### 5 Short title and citation.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Local Government (Dublin) Act, 1935.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Local Government (Dublin) Acts, 1930 and 1935.
