---
title: "Local Elections Act , 1966"
identifier: "IE-1966-act-28"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1966-11-15"
last_updated: "1966-11-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1966/act/28"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Thoghcháin Áitiúla, 1966"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1966/28"
---
# Local Elections Act , 1966

##### 1 Alteration of years for holding local elections.

**1.**—(1) Section 81 (1) of the Electoral Act, 1963, is hereby amended by the substitution of the following paragraph for paragraph (*a*):

“(*a*) An election of members of every local authority shall be held in the year 1967 and quinquennially thereafter.”

(2) The terms of office of members of local authorities current at the commencement of this Act shall stand extended so as to be in accordance with the holding in the year 1967 of the elections of members of local authorities next after the commencement of this Act and those elections shall be regarded as quinquennial elections.

##### 2 Alteration of years for making appointments of school attendance committees.

**2.**—The appointments next after the commencement of this Act under section 10 of the School Attendance Act, 1926, shall be made in the year 1967 and shall be regarded as quinquennial appointments.

##### 3 Provisions with respect to certain meetings.

**3.**—(1) Notwithstanding that the Local Elections Act, 1927, has been repealed, the meetings referred to in sections 8 (1), 9 (1), 9 (2) and 10 (2) of that Act by reference to the period from the 23rd day of June to the 1st day of July in a year shall be held in the year 1966, and, for the purposes of this subsection, that Act (including, in particular sections 8 (2), 9 (3), 10 (3) and 11) shall be regarded as not having been repealed.

(2) Subsection (1) of this section shall have effect in relation to the borough of Dun Laoghaire as it has effect in relation to other boroughs, provided however that any reference to a mayor shall be construed as a reference to the chairman.

(3) The meetings next after the commencement of this Act under section 14 of the Vocational Education Act, 1930, shall be regarded as quinquennial meetings.

##### 4 Amendment of section 84 (1) of Electoral Act, 1963.

**4.**—Section 84 (1) of the Electoral Act, 1963, is hereby amended by the addition of “subject to the restriction that a day fixed as aforesaid shall be in the month of June in the year in which the elections to which the order relates are held”.

##### 5 Repeals.

**5.**—Sections 1, 2 (2), 3 (2) and 3 (3) of the Local Elections Act, 1965, are hereby repealed.

##### 6 Short title, collective citation, construction and commencement.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Local Elections Act, 1966.

(2) The Local Elections Acts, 1963 and 1965, and this Act may be cited together as the Local Elections Acts, 1963 to 1966, and shall be construed together as one Act.

(3) This Act shall be deemed to have come into operation on the 8th day of June, 1966, and anything done on or after that day and before and in anticipation of the passing of this Act shall be valid accordingly.
