---
title: "Courts (Supplemental Provisions)(Amendment)(No. 2) Act , 1968"
identifier: "IE-1968-act-21"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1968-07-03"
last_updated: "1968-07-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1968/act/21"
title_ga: "Acht na gCúirteanna (Forálacha Forlíontacha)(Leasú)(Uimh. 2), 1968"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1968/21"
---
# Courts (Supplemental Provisions)(Amendment)(No. 2) Act , 1968

##### 1 Amendment of section 46 of Courts (Supplemental Provisions) Act, 1961.

**1.**—Section 46 of the Courts (Supplemental Provisions) Act, 1961, is hereby amended, with effect as from the 1st day of April, 1968, by—

(*a*) the substitution of the following subsections for subsections (1), (2) and (3) (inserted by the Courts (Supplemental Provisions) (Amendment) Act, 1964):

“(1) There shall be paid to the several judges of the Supreme Court and of the High Court the following remuneration—

(*a*) to the Chief Justice the sum of £8,000 a year,

(*b*) to the President of the High Court and to each of the ordinary judges of the Supreme Court the sum of £7,000 a year,

(*c*) to each of the ordinary judges of the High Court the sum of £6,000 a year.

(2) There shall be paid to the several judges of the Circuit Court the following remuneration—

(*a*) to the President of the Circuit Court the sum of £6,000 a year,

(*b*) to each of the ordinary judges of the Circuit Court the sum of £5,000 a year.

(3) There shall be paid to the several justices of the District Court the following remuneration—

(*a*) to the President of the District Court the sum of £4,500 a year,

(*b*) to each other justice of the District Court the sum of £3,750 a year”,

and

(*b*) the insertion after subsection (8) of the following subsection:

“(9) (*a*) The Government may, whenever they so think fit, by order increase the sums payable by way of remuneration to the several judges of the Supreme Court, the High Court and the Circuit Court and the several justices of the District Court.

(*b*) An order under this subsection may, if so expressed, have retrospective effect.

(*c*) Where an order is proposed to be made under this subsection, a draft thereof shall be laid before Dáil Éireann and, if a resolution disapproving of the draft is passed by Dáil Éireann within the next subsequent twenty-one days on which it has sat after the draft is laid before it, the order shall not be made.”

##### 2 Short title and collective citation.

**2**.—(1) This Act may be cited as the Courts (Supplemental Provisions) (Amendment) (No. 2) Act, 1968.

(2) The collective citation, the Courts (Supplemental Provisions) Acts, 1961 to 1968, shall include this Act.
