---
title: "Agricultural Produce (Fresh Meat) (Amendment) Act , 1938"
identifier: "IE-1938-act-1"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1938-01-20"
last_updated: "1938-01-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1938/act/1"
title_ga: "An tAcht Tora Talmhaíochta (Feoil Úr) (Leasú), 1938"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1938/1"
---
# Agricultural Produce (Fresh Meat) (Amendment) Act , 1938

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “the Principal Act” means the Agricultural Produce (Fresh Meat) Act, 1930 (No. 10 of 1930);

the expression “the Minister” means the Minister for Agriculture;

the expression “bacon-curing licence” means any licence granted under section 24 of the Pigs and Bacon Act, 1935 (No. 24 of 1935), as amended by section 8 of the Pigs and Bacon Act, 1937 (No. 23 of 1937).

##### 2 Refusal of applications for registration in registers kept under the Principal Act.

**2.**—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Principal Act and without prejudice to the powers of refusing applications for registration of premises conferred on him by the Principal Act, the Minister may in his absolute discretion refuse an application for registration of any premises.

(2) Where the Minister, in exercise of the power conferred on him by this section, refuses an application for registration, sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 8 of the Principal Act shall not apply in respect of such application.

(3) In this section “registration” means registration in any register kept by the Minister under the Principal Act.

##### 3 Amendment of section 13 of the Principal Act.

**3.**—(1) Where an application is made to the Minister for a pork exporter's licence under the Principal Act by a person who is the holder of a bacon-curing licence, sub-section (1) of section 13 of the Principal Act shall not apply in respect of such application.

(2) This section shall be deemed to have come into operation and shall have effect as on and from the 1st day of July, 1937.

##### 4 Amendment of section 37 of the Principal Act.

**4.**—A certificate given by a veterinary examiner under section 37 of the Principal Act may, if such veterinary examiner thinks fit, relate to any number of carcases or offals of animals found unfit for human consumption or to any number of portions of carcases or offals of animals found unfit for human consumption.

##### 5 Amendment of the Schedule to the Principal Act.

**5.**—(1) Where a person held, at any time during any half-year (being either a first half-year commencing on or after the 1st day of July, 1937, or a second half-year commencing on or after the 1st day of January, 1937), a pork exporter's licence in respect of registered premises, and such person also held, at any time during such half-year, a bacon-curing licence in respect of such premises, the following provisions shall, for the purposes of computing under the Schedule to the Principal Act the exporters's half-yearly fee payable by such person in respect of such premises for such half-year, have effect, that is to say:—

(*a*) if such pork exporter's licence is the only exporter's licence held by such person in respect of such premises at any time during such half-year, the minimum fee in respect of such pork exporter's licence for such half-year shall be deemed to be nought;

(*b*) if such person held at any time during such half-year, in addition to such pork exporter's licence, one other exporter's licence in respect of such premises, the collective minimum fee in respect of both such exporter's licences for such half-year shall be deemed to be, in case such other exporter's licence is a beef exporter's licence, fifty pounds, or, in any other case, twenty-five pounds;

(*c*) if such person held at any time during such half-year, in addition to such pork exporter's licence, two or more other exporter's licences in respect of such premises and none of such other exporter's licences is a beef exporter's licence, the collective minimum fee in respect of all such exporter's licences for such half-year shall be deemed to be fifty pounds.

(2) This section shall be construed as one with the Schedule to the Principal Act.

(3) This section shall be deemed to have come into operation and shall have effect as on and from the 1st day of January, 1937.

##### 6 Short title and collective citation.

**6.**—This Act may be cited as the Agricultural Produce (Fresh Meat) (Amendment) Act, 1938, and the Agricultural Produce (Fresh Meat) Acts, 1930 to 1935, and this Act may be cited together as the Agricultural Produce (Fresh Meat) Acts, 1930 to 1938.
