---
title: "Summer Time Act , 1924"
identifier: "IE-1924-act-12"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1924-04-12"
last_updated: "1924-04-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1924/act/12"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Am Samhraidh, 1924"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1924/12"
---
# Summer Time Act , 1924

##### 1 Time to be advanced one hour during summer time.

**1.**—(1) The time for general purposes in Saorstát Eireann shall, during the period of summer time in the year 1924, be one hour in advance of West-European time.

(2) Whenever any reference to a point of time occurs in any enactment, Order in Council, Order, regulation, rule, bye-law, deed, notice, or other document whatsoever, the time referred to shall, during the period of summer time in the year 1924, be deemed, subject as hereinafter provided, to be the time as fixed for general purposes by this Act.

(3) Nothing in this Act shall affect the use of West-European time for purposes of astronomy, meteorology, or navigation, or affect the construction of any document mentioning or referring to a point of time in connection with any of those purposes.

##### 2 Limits of period of summer time.

**2.**—For the purpose of this Act, the period of summer time for the year 1924 shall be taken to be the period beginning at two o'clock, West-European time, in the morning of the 13th day of April, in the year 1924, and ending at two o'clock, West-European time, in the morning of the 21st day of September, in the year 1924.

##### 3 Definition of West-European time.

**3.**—In this Act the expression “West-European time” means Greenwich mean time.

##### 4 Short title.

**4.**—This Act may be cited as the Summer Time Act, 1924.
