---
title: "Local Elections Act , 1965"
identifier: "IE-1965-act-19"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1965-07-20"
last_updated: "1965-07-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1965/act/19"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Thoghcháin Áitiúla, 1965"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1965/19"
---
# Local Elections Act , 1965

##### 1 Postponement of 1965 local elections.

**1.**—(1) The local elections which, if this subsection were not enacted, would be held in the year 1965 shall be held in the year 1966, and the terms of office of members of local authorities current at the commencement of this Act shall stand extended accordingly.

(2) Notwithstanding the postponement by subsection (1) of this section of the elections specified therein—

(*a*) the years for holding subsequent local elections shall remain unchanged and local elections shall be held accordingly in the year 1970 and quinquennially thereafter, and

(*b*) the elections specified in the subsection and the local elections to be held in the year 1970 shall be regarded as quinquennial elections.

##### 2 Vocational education committees.

**2.**—(1) Paragraph (*b*) of subsection (2) of section 9 of the Vocational Education Act, 1930, is hereby amended by the substitution in paragraph (*b*) of “next after the local elections” for “between the 23rd day of June and the 15th day of July”.

(2) Notwithstanding the postponement consequent upon subsection (1) of section 1 of this Act of the elections of members of vocational education committees which, if that subsection were not enacted, would be held in the year 1965, the meetings of those committees to be held in the years 1966 and 1970 under section 14 of the Vocational Education Act, 1930, as amended by section 81 of the Electoral Act, 1963, shall be regarded as quinquennial meetings.

##### 3 School attendance committees.

**3.**—(1) In this section “the principal section” means section 10 of the School Attendance Act, 1926, as amended by paragraphs (*a*) and (*b*) of subsection (5) of section 81 of the Electoral Act, 1963.

(2) The appointments of members of school attendance committees which, if this subsection were not enacted, would be made under subsection (3) of the principal section in the year 1965 shall be made in the year 1966.

(3) Notwithstanding the postponement by subsection (2) of this section of the appointments specified therein, the appointments of members of school attendance committees under subsection (3) of the principal section next after the appointments so specified shall be made in the year 1970 and those appointments and the appointments so specified shall be regarded as quinquennial appointments.

(4) (*a*) Subsection (3) of the principal section is hereby amended by the substitution of “until their successors come into” for “for three years from the time prescribed by the Minister under this section for the commencement of their term of”.

(*b*) Subsection (4) of the principal section is hereby amended by the substitution of “period of office” for “triennial period” in both places where the latter words occur.

##### 4 Lough Corrib Navigation Trustees.

**4.**—Subsection (2) of section 7, subsection (2) of section 8 and subsection (2) of section 9 of the Lough Corrib Navigation Act, 1945, are each hereby amended by the substitution of “election of members of that Council” for “22nd day of June”.

##### 5 Harbour authorities.

**5.**—The Minister for Transport and Power may—

(*a*) with respect to subsection (8) of section 7, subsection (10) of section 10, subsections (1) and (2) of section 14, subsections (1) and (2) of section 20, subsection (3) of section 31, subsection (1) of section 32 and subsection (1) of section 33 and section 27 of the Harbours Act, 1946—by regulations substitute a different day for the second Thursday in the month of October referred to in those subsections and that section,

(*b*) with respect to subsection (3) of section 8 of that Act— by regulations substitute a different day for the 7th day of July referred to in that subsection,

(*c*) with respect to subsection (1) and subsections (3) to (9) of section 10 of that Act—by regulations substitute a different period for the period referred to in those subsections,

(*d*) with respect to subsection (2) of section 10 and paragraph (*b*) of section 11 of that Act—by regulations substitute a different period for the period referred to in that subsection and that paragraph.

##### 6 Provisions with respect to certain meetings.

**6.**—(1) Notwithstanding that the Local Elections Act, 1927, has been repealed, the meetings referred to in subsection (1) of section 8, subsections (1) and (2) of section 9 and subsection (2) of section 10 of that Act by reference to the period from the 23rd day of June to the 1st day of July in a year shall be held in the year 1965, and, for the purposes of this subsection, that Act (including, in particular, subsection (2) of section 8, subsection (3) of section 9, subsection (3) of section 10 and section 11) shall be regarded as not having been repealed.

(2) Subsection (1) of this section shall have effect in relation to the borough of Dun Laoghaire as it has effect in relation to other boroughs, provided however that any reference to a mayor shall be construed as a reference to the chairman.

##### 7 Short title, collective citation, construction and commencement.

**7.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Local Elections Act, 1965.

(2) Parts I, II, VI and VIII of the Electoral Act, 1963, and this Act may be cited together as the Local Elections Acts, 1963 and 1965, and shall be construed together as one Act.

(3) This Act shall be deemed to have come into operation on the 10th day of June, 1965 and anything done on or after that day and before and in anticipation of the passing of this Act shall be valid accordingly.
