---
title: "Pharmacy Act , 1951"
identifier: "IE-1951-act-30"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1951-12-26"
last_updated: "1951-12-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1951/act/30"
title_ga: "An tAcht Cógaisíochta, 1951"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1951/30"
---
# Pharmacy Act , 1951

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Act of 1890” means the Pharmacy Act (Ireland), 1875, Amendment Act, 1890;

“the council” means the council of the Society;

“existing registered druggist” means a person who, at the commencement of this Act, is registered in the register of registered druggists in Ireland;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Health;

“the period for qualification” means the period of three years beginning on the commencement of this Act;

“prescribed” means prescribed by regulations made by the council subject to the provisions of the Principal Act;

“the Principal Act” means the Pharmacy Act (Ireland), 1875;

“the registrar” means the registrar of the Society;

“the Society” means the Pharmaceutical Society of Ireland.

##### 2 Register of dispensing chemists and druggists.

**2.**—(1) The registrar shall maintain a register to be called the register of dispensing chemists and druggists.

(2) Any existing registered druggist who has received the certificate of the Society of his having passed, during the period for qualification, an examination of his qualifications held pursuant to section 3 of this Act shall, on making application in writing to the registrar, be entitled to be registered in the register of dispensing chemists and druggists.

(3) Where a person is registered in the register of dispensing chemists and druggists, his name shall be removed from the register of registered druggists in Ireland.

##### 3 Examinations.

**3.**—(1) The council shall, during the period for qualification, cause the prescribed examinations to be held from time to time for the purpose of examining the qualifications for registration under this Act of existing registered druggists.

(2) The examinations shall be held at the prescribed times and in the prescribed manner by examiners appointed, with the approval of the Minister, by the council.

##### 4 Restriction on use of title of dispensing chemist and druggist.

**4.**—It shall be unlawful for any person to use the title of dispensing chemist and druggist unless he is registered in the register of dispensing chemists and druggists, and any person acting in contravention of this section shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding five pounds.

##### 5 Sale of poisons, etc.

**5.**—A registered dispensing chemist and druggist shall be entitled to sell or keep open shop for retailing, dispensing or compounding poisons or medical prescriptions.

##### 6 Cesser of sections 8 and 10 of Act of 1890.

**6.**—(1) Section 8 of the Act of 1890 shall cease to have effect except as respects terms of service as apprentice or assistant which began before the 31st day of October, 1951.

(2) Section 10 of the Act of 1890 shall cease to have effect except as respects apprenticeships which began before the 31st day of October, 1951.

##### 7 Consequential amendments and applications.

**7.**—(1) Section 32 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by inserting “or registered under the Pharmacy Act, 1951, as a dispensing chemist and druggist” after “registered under this Act as a pharmaceutical chemist”, “or dispensing chemist and druggist” after “such pharmaceutical chemist” and “or a dispensing chemist and druggist registered as such under the Pharmacy Act, 1951” after “registered as such under this Act”.

(2) Subsection (2) of section 12 of the Act of 1890 and the regulations for the purposes thereof shall apply to a registered dispensing chemist and druggist as if he were registered under that Act as a registered druggist.

(3) Section 16 of the Act of 1890 is hereby amended by inserting “and of the register of dispensing chemists and druggists” after “register of registered druggists”.

(4) Section 17 of the Act of 1890 is hereby amended by inserting “or registered dispensing chemist and druggist” after “registered druggist” and after “duly qualified pharmaceutical chemist”.

(5) Section 19 of the Act of 1890 is hereby amended by inserting “or of a registered dispensing chemist and druggist” after “licentiate of the Pharmaceutical Society”.

(6) In any provision made by or under any Act other than the Principal Act or the Act of 1890, any reference to a registered druggist shall be construed as including a reference to a registered dispensing chemist and druggist.

(7) The provisions made by the Principal Act in relation to the Register of Pharmaceutical Chemists for Ireland shall, subject to this Act, also have effect in relation to the register of dispensing chemists and druggists.

##### 8 Short title, construction and commencement.

**8.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Pharmacy Act, 1951.

(2) The Principal Act, the Act of 1890 and this Act shall be read together and construed as one Act.

(3) This Act shall come into operation on such day as the Minister appoints by order.
