---
title: "Decimal Currency Act , 1990"
identifier: "IE-1990-act-2"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1990-03-20"
last_updated: "1990-03-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1990/act/2"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Airgead Reatha Deachúil, 1990"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1990/2"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Decimal Currency Act , 1990

##### 1 “Principal Act”.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Decimal Currency Act, 1969.

##### 2 Provision and issue by Minister of coins denominated in European currency units.

**2.**—(1) The Minister may provide coins of such denominations in European currency units, of such designs, of such dimensions, of such weights and of such metal, or of such metals and composition, as he may determine.

(2) Coins provided under this section may be issued and put on sale to the public by the Minister through the Central Bank.

(3) The prices of coins put on sale under *subsection (2)* shall be determined by the Minister.

(4) A tender of a coin issued under this section shall not be legal tender for the payment of any amount and a holder of such a coin shall not be entitled to demand any value denoted thereon or the equivalent of that value in the currency of any state.

(5) Sections 6 and 13 of the Principal Act shall apply to coins provided under this section.

(6) Sections 7, 11 and 20 of the Principal Act shall apply to coins issued under this section.

(7) Section 57 of the Copyright Act, 1963, shall apply to coins issued under this section.

##### 3 Amendment of Principal Act.

**3.**—The Principal Act is hereby amended—

(*a*) by the insertion of the following section after section 4:

“Provision of copper coins containing other metals.

4A.—(1) The Minister may, in addition to or in lieu of providing bronze coins of the several denominations authorised by section 3 of this Act, provide coins of those denominations consisting, in each case, of a core of metal or metals (other than copper) covered in copper.

(2) Every coin provided under this section shall be of the standard weight and standard composition prescribed by the Minister by regulations.

(3) There shall be allowed in respect of coins provided under this section the remedy (or variation from the standard weight and standard composition) prescribed by the Minister by regulations.

(4) A coin of any denomination provided under this section shall be of the same dimensions and design as the dimensions and design standing prescribed for the time being under section 3 (6) of this Act in respect of a coin of that denomination.

(5) Sections 5 and 6 of this Act shall apply to coins provided under this section and section 7 of this Act shall apply to every issue of coins so provided.”,

(*b*) in section 14, by the insertion in subsection (1) after “this Act” of “or *the Decimal Currency Act, 1990*,”, and

(*c*) in the First Schedule, by the insertion in the part headed “*Cupro-nickel Coins*” of the following:

“

| One pound | 10.00000 | 75 per cent. copper, 25 per cent. nickel | 0.0450 | 2 per cent. |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |

”.

##### 4 Short title and construction.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Decimal Currency Act, 1990.

(2) The Decimal Currency Acts, 1969 to 1989, and this Act may be cited together as the Decimal Currency Acts, 1969 to 1990, and shall be construed together as one Act.
