---
title: "Courts Act , 1973"
identifier: "IE-1973-act-26"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1973-11-24"
last_updated: "1973-11-24"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1973/act/26"
title_ga: "Acht na gCúirteanna, 1973"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1973/26"
---
# Courts Act , 1973

##### 1 Number of ordinary judges of High Court.

**1.**—(1) The number of ordinary judges of the High Court shall not be more than seven.

(2) Subsection 4 (2) of the Courts (Supplemental Provisions) Act, 1961, is hereby repealed.

##### 2 Qualification of judges of Circuit Court.

**2.**—(1) For the purpose of qualification for appointment—

(*a*) under section 43 of the Courts of Justice Act, 1924, as a judge of the Circuit Court of Justice constituted by section 37 of that Act, or

(*b*) under section 14 of the Courts of Justice Act, 1936, to act temporarily as such a judge,

service by a person appointed under the said section 14 to act temporarily as a judge of that Court shall be deemed always to have been practice at the Bar.

(2) For the purpose of qualification for appointment—

(*a*) under section 17 (2) (*a*) of the Courts (Supplemental Provisions) Act, 1961, as a judge of the Circuit Court, or

(*b*) under the said section 14 to act temporarily as such a judge,

service by a person appointed under the said section 14 to act temporarily as a judge of that Court shall be deemed to be, and always to have been, practice at the Bar.

##### 3 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Courts Act, 1973.

(2) The Courts (Supplemental Provisions) Acts, 1961 to 1971, and this Act may be cited together as the Courts (Supplemental Provisions) Acts, 1961 to 1973, and shall be construed together as one Act.
