---
title: "Electoral (Amendment) Act , 1933"
identifier: "IE-1933-act-14"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1933-07-15"
last_updated: "1933-07-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1933/act/14"
title_ga: "An tAcht Toghacháin (Leasú), 1933"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1933/14"
---
# Electoral (Amendment) Act , 1933

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “the Principal Act” means the Electoral Act, 1923, No. 12 of 1923);

the expression “Dáil election” has the same meaning as it has in the Principal Act.

##### 2 Return of deposit of elected candidate.

**2.**—Save as is otherwise provided by sub-section (6) of section 20 of the Principal Act, whenever a candidate at a Dáil election is elected the deposit made by him or on his behalf in pursuance of the said section 20 shall, as soon as practicable after the result of such election is declared, be returned to the person by whom such deposit was made.

##### 3 Amendment of section 51 of the Principal Act.

**3.**—Sub-section (1) of section 51 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the deletion of the words and brackets “(subject to taking the oath prescribed by the Constitution of Saorstát Eireann)” and the insertion in lieu thereof of the words and brackets “(subject to compliance with the Standing Orders of Dáil Eireann),” and the said section shall be construed and have effect accordingly.

##### 4 Amendment of section 57 of the Principal Act.

**4.**—Sub-section (1) of section 57 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the deletion of the words and brackets “(subject to taking the oath prescribed by the Constitution of Saorstát Eireann)” and the insertion in lieu thereof of the words and brackets “(subject to compliance with the Standing Orders of Seanad Eireann)” and the said section shall be construed and have effect accordingly.

##### 5 Repeals.

**5.**—The enactments specified in the Schedule to this Act are hereby repealed to the extent mentioned in the third column of the said Schedule.

##### 6 Short title, and citation.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Electoral (Amendment) Act, 1933.

(2) The Electoral Acts, 1923 to 1927, and this Act may be cited together as the Electoral Acts, 1923 to 1933.

## SCHEDULE. Enactments Repealed.

| No. and Year. | Short Title. | Extent of Repeal. |
| --- | --- | --- |
| No. 33 of 1927. | The Electoral (Amendment) (No. 2) Act, 1927. | The whole Act so far as unrepealed. |
| No. 1 of 1930. | The Seanad Bye-Elections Act, 1930. | Sub-section (3) of section 4. |
