---
title: "Local Government (Extension of Franchise) Act , 1935"
identifier: "IE-1935-act-9"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1935-03-29"
last_updated: "1935-03-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1935/act/9"
title_ga: "An tAcht Rialtais Áitiúla (Reacht-Shaoirse do Leathnú), 1935"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1935/9"
---
# Local Government (Extension of Franchise) Act , 1935

##### 1 Definitions and construction.

**1.**—(1) In this Act—

the expression “qualifying date” means any 15th day of November subsequent to the passing of this Act;

the expression “first qualifying date” means the 15th day of November which occurs next after the passing of this Act;

the word “person” does not include a body corporate or an unincorporated body of persons.

(2) This Act shall be read and construed as one with the Local Government Electors Registration Act, 1924 (No. 7 of 1924), and with so much of the Representation of the People Act, 1918, and the Electoral Act, 1923 (No. 12 of 1923), as relates or is applicable to local government franchise or the registration of local government electors.

##### 2 Extension of local government franchise.

**2.**—(1) Every person (without distinction of sex) who, on any qualifying date, is a citizen of Saorstát Eireann and has attained the age of twenty-one years and is not subject to any legal incapacity shall be entitled to be registered in the register of electors prepared in relation to that qualifying date as a local government elector in the local government electoral area in which he was ordinarily resident on the said qualifying date.

(2) The right of registration as a local government elector conferred by this section on any person shall be in addition and without prejudice to any right to such registration which such person may have under any enactment in force at the passing of this Act.

##### 3 Transitory provisions.

**3.**—During the period from and after the passing of this Act and before the 1st day of June next after the first qualifying date, every person who is registered as a Dáil elector in any local government electoral area and is not registered as a local government elector in that electoral area shall be deemed to be registered as a local government elector in the said electoral area and shall have such rights (if any) of voting as would be conferred on him by such registration.

##### 4 Saving for disqualifications, etc.

**4.**—No person who is registered or deemed to be registered under or by virtue of this Act as a local government elector shall be relieved by such registration from any disqualification for voting, nor from any penalty for voting when disqualified, nor from any restriction on the number of votes exercisable.

##### 5 Short title.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Local Government (Extension of Franchise) Act, 1935.
