---
title: "Fishing Licences (Moville District) Act , 1951"
identifier: "IE-1951-act-25"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1951-12-18"
last_updated: "1951-12-18"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1951/act/25"
title_ga: "An tAcht Ceadúnas Iascaigh (Ceantar Mhagh Bhile), 1951"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1951/25"
---
# Fishing Licences (Moville District) Act , 1951

##### 1 Prohibition of issue of licences by the Moville Board.

**1.**—(1) Save as provided by this section, the Moville Board shall not during the year 1952 issue or permit the issue of any licence authorising the use of any fishing engine other than a rod and line.

(2) The Minister for Agriculture may by order allow the Moville Board to issue or permit the issue of such licences as aforesaid.

##### 2 Exclusion of section 31 of Fisheries (Ireland) Act, 1848.

**2.**—While the Moville Board is prohibited from issuing the licences referred to in section 1 of this Act a person shall not be entitled, by virtue of section 31 of the Fisheries (Ireland) Act, 1848, to purchase, from the Moville Board, or from any person authorised by that Board to sell licences, a licence authorising the use of any fishing engine other than a rod and line.

##### 3 Interpretation.

**3.**—In this Act—

“fishing engine” means any engine, net, instrument, or device whatsoever used for taking fish;

“licence” includes a special local licence under section 6 of the Fisheries (Tidal Waters) Act, 1934 (No. 24 of 1934);

“the Moville Board” means the board of conservators for the Moville District.

##### 4 Short title and construction.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Fishing Licences (Moville District) Act, 1951.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Fisheries Acts, 1842 to 1949.
