---
title: "Industrial Grants (Amendment) Act , 1961"
identifier: "IE-1961-act-30"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1961-08-09"
last_updated: "1961-08-09"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1961/act/30"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Dheontais Tionscail (Leasú), 1961"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1961/30"
---
# Industrial Grants (Amendment) Act , 1961

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Principal Act” means the Undeveloped Areas Act, 1952;

“the Act of 1957” means the Undeveloped Areas (Amendment) Act, 1957;

“the Act of 1959” means the Industrial Grants Act, 1959.

##### 2 Number of members of An Foras Tionscal.

**2.**—The First Schedule to the Principal Act is hereby amended—

(*a*) by the substitution in subparagraph (1) of paragraph 2 of “not more than five members ” for “three members”,

(*b*) by the insertion in subparagraph (1) of paragraph 3 of “(where that number is three) or by any three of their number (where that number is four or five)” after “any two of their number”.

##### 3 Limitation on total of grants.

**3.**—Section 6 of the Act of 1959 is hereby amended by the substitution of “fifteen million pounds” for “ten million pounds” in both subsection (1) and subsection (2).

##### 4 Grants for provision of plant.

**4.**—In section 6 of the Principal Act and section 2 of the Act of 1959, every reference to machinery shall be construed as including a reference to plant.

##### 5 Contravention of term on which grant is made.

**5.**—Where—

(*a*) a grant is made after the passing of this Act under the Principal Act, the Act of 1957 or the Act of 1959,

(*b*) the grant is made subject to any term restricting the disposal of factory sites or premises, or machinery and equipment (or any part of such sites or premises or such machinery and equipment) or, if the grantee is a company, shares in its capital, and

(*c*) there is a contravention of such term,

the amount paid to the grantee in respect of the grant shall thereupon become repayable by the grantee to An Foras Tionscal and, in default of being repaid, shall be recoverable as a simple contract debt in any court of competent jurisdiction.

##### 6 Short title.

**6.**—This Act may be cited as the Industrial Grants (Amendment) Act, 1961.
