---
title: "Rates on Agricultural Land (Relief) Act , 1964"
identifier: "IE-1964-act-35"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1964-12-09"
last_updated: "1964-12-09"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1964/act/35"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Rátaí ar Thalamh Talmhaíochta (Faoiseamh), 1964"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1964/35"
---
# Rates on Agricultural Land (Relief) Act , 1964

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Act of 1946” means the Rates on Agricultural Land (Relief) Act, 1946;

“the Act of 1953” means the Rates on Agricultural Land (Relief) Act, 1953;

“the Act of 1962” means the Rates on Agricultural Land (Relief) Act, 1962.

##### 2 Amendment of section 1 of Act of 1962.

**2.**—(1) Subsection (1) of section 1 of the Act of 1962 is hereby amended by the insertion of “and also in relation to the local financial years ending on the 31st day of March, 1966, and the 31st day of March, 1967,” before “and shall”.

(2) Accordingly, “thirteen” is hereby substituted for “eleven” where the latter word occurs in section 1 of the Act of 1953, as amended by paragraph (*a*) of subsection (2) of section 1 of the Act of 1962, in the reference to the local financial year ending on the 31st day of March, 1954, and the eleven following local financial years.

##### 3 Amendment of section 5 of Act of 1946.

**3.**—Section 5 of the Act of 1946, as amended by section 3 of the Act of 1962, is hereby amended, in relation to the local financial year ending on the 31st day of March, 1965, and any subsequent local financial year to which the Act of 1946 applies, by the substitution of “four-fifths” for “seven-tenths” wherever the latter expression occurs in the said section 5.

##### 4 Amendment of section 6 of Act of 1946.

**4.**—Section 6 of the Act of 1946, as amended by section 4 of the Act of 1962, is hereby amended, in relation to the local financial year ending on the 31st day of March, 1965, and any subsequent local financial year to which the Act of 1946 applies, by the substitution of “three-tenths” for “one-fourth”.

##### 5 Amendment of section 7 (1) (*b*) of Act of 1946.

**5.**—Paragraph (*b*) of subsection (1) of section 7 of the Act of 1946, as amended by section 1 of the Act of 1953 and section 5 of the Act of 1962, is hereby amended, in relation to the local financial year ending on the 31st day of March, 1965, and any subsequent local financial year to which the Act of 1946 applies, by the substitution of “seven-tenths” for “three-fourths”.

##### 6 Short title and collective citation.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Rates on Agricultural Land (Relief) Act, 1964.

(2) The Rates on Agricultural Land (Relief) Acts, 1939 to 1962, and this Act may be cited together as the Rates on Agricultural Land (Relief) Acts, 1939 to 1964.
