---
title: "Rent Restrictions (Amendment) Act , 1949"
identifier: "IE-1949-act-24"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1949-07-30"
last_updated: "1949-07-30"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1949/act/24"
title_ga: "An tAcht Srianta Cíosa (Leasú), 1949"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1949/24"
---
# Rent Restrictions (Amendment) Act , 1949

##### 1 The Act of 1946.

**1.**—In this Act, the expression “the Act of 1946” means the Rent Restrictions Act, 1946 (No. 4 of 1946).

##### 2 Modification of lawful additions under sections 11 (2) (*g*) and 17 (2) (*e*) of Act of 1946.

**2.**—(1) As on and from the passing of this Act, the sum which is a lawful addition to the basic rent in a case mentioned in paragraph (*g*) of subsection (2) of section 11, or paragraph (*e*) of subsection (2) of section 17, of the Act of 1946 shall be calculated in accordance with the scale set out in the Schedule to this Act and the said paragraphs shall be construed and have effect accordingly.

(2) Subsection (1) of this section applies to expenditure incurred in any of the periods of two years mentioned in the relevant paragraph.

##### 3 Recovery of excess payments.

**3.**—Where—

(*a*) any amount has been paid on account of rent which has accrued due after the date of the passing of this Act, and

(*b*) such amount includes a sum in respect of a lawful addition under paragraph (*g*) of subsection (2) of section 11, or paragraph (*e*) of subsection (2) of section 17, of the Act of 1946, and

(*c*) such sum is in excess of the lawful addition under the relevant paragraph as modified by section 2 of this Act,

then, notwithstanding that no notice reducing the rent has been served on the landlord, the excess shall be recoverable from the landlord who received it or his legal personal representative by the tenant by whom it was paid or his legal personal representative in the same manner as a sum mentioned in section 24 of the Act of 1946.

##### 4 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Rent Restrictions (Amendment) Act, 1949.

(2) The Act of 1946 and this Act may be cited together as the Rent Restrictions Acts, 1946 and 1949.

(3) The Act of 1946 and this Act shall be construed together as one Act.

## SCHEDULE.

| Amount in excess of two-thirds of basic rent expended in any period of two years | Lawful addition |
| --- | --- |
| Not more than £100 | A sum equal to 15 per annum of excess. |
| More than £100 but not more than £200. | A sum equal to— 15 per annum on the first £100 of excess, and 8 per annum on the remainder. |
| More than £200 | A sum equal to— 15 per annum on the first £100 of excess, and 8 per annum on the second £100, and 6 per annum on the remainder. |
