---
title: "Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment) Act , 1936"
identifier: "IE-1936-act-27"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1936-07-03"
last_updated: "1936-07-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1936/act/27"
title_ga: "Acht na dTithe (Forálacha Airgid agus Forálacha Ilghnéitheacha) (Leasú) (Uimh. 2), 1936"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1936/27"
---
# Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment) Act , 1936

##### 1 Definition.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1932 (No. 19 of 1932).

##### 2 Amendment of sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Principal Act.

**2.**—(1) Sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Principal Act is hereby amended in the following respects, that is to say:—

(*a*) the reference to the 1st day of April, 1935, contained in each of the paragraphs (*c*), (*d*), (*e*), (*f*), (*g*), (*h*) and (*i*) shall be construed as a reference to the 1st day of April, 1938;

(*b*) at the end of the said sub-section (1) there shall be inserted a new paragraph as follows, that is to say:—

“(*k*) to any person or public utility society erecting one or more houses to which this sub-section applies in an urban area a grant not exceeding forty-five pounds, if—

(i) the erection of such house shall have been commenced on or after the 1st day of July, 1936, and shall have been completed on or after the 1st day of April, 1937, but before the 1st day of April, 1938 and

(ii) the floor area of such house as measured in the prescribed manner shall be not less than 500 square feet nor more than 800 square feet”;

and the said sub-section shall be construed and have effect accordingly.

(2) Paragraph (c) of section 2 of the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment) Act, 1934 (No. 30 of 1934), is hereby repealed.

##### 3 Increase of limit of grants under the Principal Act.

**3.**—Section 3 of the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment) Act, 1936, (No. 13 of 1936), is hereby repealed, and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that the aggregate amount of the grants to be made by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health under section 5 of the Principal Act as amended by the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment) Act, 1934 (No. 30 of 1934), and the said Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment) Act, 1936, shall not exceed the sum of two million, eight hundred thousand pounds.

##### 4 Short title and citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment) (No. 2) Act, 1936.

(2) For the purposes of collective citation the expression “the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) Acts, 1932 to 1936” shall include this Act.
