---
title: "Industrial Development Act , 1975"
identifier: "IE-1975-act-16"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1975-07-21"
last_updated: "1975-07-21"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1975/act/16"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Fhorbairt Tionscail, 1975"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1975/16"
---
# Industrial Development Act , 1975

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Industrial Development Act, 1969.

##### 2 Amendment of section 38 of Principal Act.

**2.**—Section 38 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution for subsections (3) and (4) of the following subsections:

“(3) The total amount of moneys paid in grants under this section in respect of an industrial undertaking shall not exceed £850,000.

(4) Notwithstanding anything in this section the Government may, in respect of a particular industrial undertaking, permit the making by the Authority of grants under subsection (1) of this section exceeding in amount £850,000, but provided that in each such case the percentage limits specified in subsection (2) of this section are not exceeded ”.

##### 3 Amendment of section 42 of Principal Act.

**3.**—The Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution for section 42 of the following section:

“42—(1) The total amount of moneys granted under one or more of the following sections of this Act, namely sections 33, 34, 35 and 46, to or in respect of a particular industrial undertaking shall not exceed £850,000.

(2) Notwithstanding anything in this section the Government may, in respect of a particular industrial undertaking, permit the making of a grant or grants under one or more of the said sections of this Act exceeding in amount £850,000, but provided that in each such case the percentage limits specified in sections 33 (2), 34 (2), 35 (2) and 35 (4) of this Act (as may be appropriate) are not exceeded.”

##### 4 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Industrial Development Act, 1975.

(2) The Industrial Development Acts, 1969 and 1972, and this Act shall be construed as one Act and may be cited together as the Industrial Development Acts, 1969 to 1975.
