---
title: "Local Elections (Dublin) Act , 1929"
identifier: "IE-1929-act-3"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1929-03-26"
last_updated: "1929-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1929/act/3"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Thoghacháin Áitiúla (Baile Átha Cliath), 1929"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1929/3"
---
# Local Elections (Dublin) Act , 1929

##### 1 Postponement of elections to Dublin borough council and guardians.

**1.**—Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Local Elections (Dissolved Authorities) Act, 1926 (No. 22 of 1926), the new elections to the council of the county borough of Dublin and to the guardians of the poor of the Dublin union respectively required by the said sub-section to be held not later than the 31st day of March, 1929, may be held at any time after that date but not later than the 30th day of September, 1930.

##### 2 Postponement of local elections in Dublin county.

**2.**—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 21 of the Local Elections Act, 1927 (No. 39 of 1927), the statutory elections of members of local authorities postponed by that section are hereby further postponed until and shall be held on such date not being later than the 30th day of September, 1930, as the Minister for Local Government and Public Health shall by order prescribe.

(2) An Order made by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health under this section prescribing the date of an election shall, for the purposes of sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 21 of the Local Elections Act, 1927, be deemed to be made under that section, and those sub-sections shall be construed and have effect accordingly.

##### 3 Short title.

**3.**—This Act may be cited as the Local Elections (Dublin) Act, 1929.
