---
title: "Export Promotion (Amendment) Act , 1987"
identifier: "IE-1987-act-13"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1987-07-18"
last_updated: "1987-07-18"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1987/act/13"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Onnmhairiú a Spreagadh (Leasú), 1987"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1987/13"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Export Promotion (Amendment) Act , 1987

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act—

“export goods” and “Special Trading House” have the meanings assigned to them, respectively, in subsection (ICC2) (inserted by the Finance Act, 1987) of section 39 of the Finance Act, 1980;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Industry and Commerce.

##### 2 Licensing of Special Trading Houses.

**2.**—(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Minister may grant a licence in respect of a Special Trading House.

(2) Every application for a licence in respect of a Special Trading House shall be in such form as may be approved of by the Minister.

(3) The Minister may require an applicant for a licence in respect of a Special Trading House to furnish to him, within such time as may be specified, such further information in relation to the application as the Minister considers to be necessary or desirable.

(4) If an applicant for a licence in respect of a Special Trading House fails or refuses, within the time specified, to furnish the Minister with such further information as the Minister may, pursuant to *subsection (3)* of this section, require, the Minister shall not consider the application.

(5) The Minister shall not grant a licence in respect of a Special Trading House unless he is satisfied that the applicant for the licence has the structure, organisation and marketing ability to undertake successfully the sale of export goods.

(6) Whenever the Minister decides to refuse an application for the grant of a licence in respect of a Special Trading House, he shall, by notice in writing, notify the applicant for the licence of his decision and of the reasons therefor.

(7) Whenever the Minister refuses to grant a licence in respect of a Special Trading House, the applicant for the licence, may, within28 days after the service of the notice under *subsection (6)* of this section, appeal to the Circuit Court against such refusal and the decision of the Circuit Court on an appeal under this subsection shall be final save that, by leave of that Court, an appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court on a point of law.

##### 3 Increase of non-repayable grants to Córas Tráchtála.

**3.**—The aggregate amount of the sums which the Minister for Industry and Commerce, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, may pay to Córas Tráchtála for the purpose of enabling it to exercise or perform its functions (excluding any sum paid to it under section 4 of the Export Promotion (Amendment) Act, 1963) shall not exceed £260,000,000 and, accordingly, section 16 (1) of the Export Promotion Act, 1959, shall be construed as if that sum were substituted for the sum mentioned therein.

##### 4 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Export Promotion (Amendment) Act, 1987.

(2) This Act and the Export Promotion Acts, 1959 to 1983, shall be construed as one Act.

(3) The Export Promotion Acts, 1959 to 1983, and this Act may be cited together as the Export Promotion Acts, 1959 to 1987.
