---
title: "Minerals Development Act , 1995"
identifier: "IE-1995-act-C15"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1995-07-17"
last_updated: "1996-06-17"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1995/act/15"
title_ga: "An tAcht Forbartha Mianraí, 1995"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1995/15"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Minerals Development Act , 1995

##### 1 Amendment of Article 41 of the Constitution.

**1.**—Article 41 of the Constitution is hereby amended as follows:

(*a*) the subsection set out in *Part I* of the Schedule to this Act shall be substituted for subsection 2 of section 3 of the Irish text,

(*b*) the subsection set out in *Part II* of the Schedule to this Act shall be substituted for subsection 2 of section 3 of the English text.

##### 2 Citation.

**2.**—(1) The amendment of the Constitution effected by this Act shall be called the Fifteenth Amendment of the Constitution.

(2) This Act may be cited as the Fifteenth Amendment of the Constitution Act, 1995.

## SCHEDULE

2 Féadfaidh Cúirt a bheidh ainmnithe le dlí scaoileadh ar phósadh a thabhairt sa chás, ach sa chás amháin, gur deimhin léi—

i. go raibh, ar dháta thionscnamh na n-imeachtaí, tréimhse ceithre bliana ar a laghad, nó tréimhsí ceithre bliana ar a laghad san iomlán, caite ag na céilí ina gcónaí ar leithligh óna chéile le linn na gcúig bliana roimhe sin,

ii. nach bhfuil ionchas réasúnach ar bith ann go mbeidh comhréiteach idir na céilí,

iii. go bhfuil cibé socrú ann, nó go ndéanfar cibé socrú, is dóigh leis an gCúirt a bheith cuí ag féachaint do na himthosca, le haghaidh na gcéilí, le haghaidh aon leanaí le ceachtar acu nó leis an mbeirt acu agus le haghaidh aon duine eile a bheidh forordaithe le dlí, agus

iv. go gcomhlíontar aon choinníollacha breise a bheidh forordaithe le dlí.

2 A Court designated by law may grant a dissolution of marriage where, but only where, it is satisfied that—

i. at the date of the institution of the proceedings, the spouses have lived apart from one another for a period of, or periods amounting to, at least four years during the previous five years,

ii. there is no reasonable prospect of a reconciliation between the spouses,

iii. such provision as the Court considers proper having regard to the circumstances exists or will be made for the spouses, any children of either or both of them and any other person prescribed by law, and

iv. any further conditions prescribed by law are complied with.
