---
title: "Vocational Education (Amendment) Act , 1962"
identifier: "IE-1962-act-28"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1962-11-21"
last_updated: "1962-11-21"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1962/act/28"
title_ga: "An tAcht Gairmoideachais (Leasú), 1962"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1962/28"
---
# Vocational Education (Amendment) Act , 1962

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Principal Act” means the Vocational Education Act, 1930;

“the Act of 1950” means the Vocational Education (Amendment) Act, 1950.

##### 2 Amendment of section 43 of Principal Act.

**2.**—(1) Section 43 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion after subsection (2) (inserted by the Act of 1950) of the following subsection:

“(2A) The amount of the annual local contribution payable by the rating authority to a vocational education committee in respect of a local financial year commencing on or after the 1st day of April, 1963, shall not exceed a sum (in this Act referred to as the maximum annual liability) equal to a rate of twenty-four pence in the pound on the rateable value of the area of charge at the commencement of the immediately preceding local financial year.”

(2) Section 1 of the Vocational Education (Amendment) Act, 1953, is hereby repealed.

(3) Subsections (1) and (2) of this section shall come into operation on the 1st day of November, 1962.

##### 3 Amendment of section 46 of Principal Act.

**3.**—(1) Section 46 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution in paragraph (*d*) of subsection (1) (inserted by the Act of 1950) of “three pence” for “two pence”.

(2) Subsection (1) of this section shall come into operation on the 1st day of November, 1962.

##### 4 Rateable value.

**4.**—(1) In order to remove doubts as to the true construction and meaning of the definition of “rateable value” in section 2 of the Principal Act the said section 2 is hereby amended by the substitution for the definition of “rateable value” of the following definition namely:

“‘rateable value’ means in relation to the area of charge (within the meaning of Part IV of this Act) of any rating authority (within the meaning of the said Part IV) the aggregate amount of the valuations under the Valuation Acts of all hereditaments situate in that area in respect of which any rate is payable or, in the case of an unoccupied hereditament, would be payable if the hereditament were occupied, whether such rate is payable to that rating authority or to some other authority having power by statute to make and levy rates, and whether such rate is, in the case of any particular hereditament, payable on the valuation thereof under the said Acts or on a fraction of that valuation or on a rent or a fraction of a rent issuing out of the hereditament, and whether such rent is payable in respect of the whole of or a part only of a local financial year;”.

(2) Subsection (1) of this section shall be deemed to have come into operation immediately after the passing of the Principal Act.

##### 5 Travelling expenses and allowances.

**5.**—(1) Section 6 of the Vocational Education (Amendment) Act, 1947, is hereby amended by the insertion in subsection (4) after paragraph (*c*) of the following paragraphs:

“(*d*) Where—

(i) a member of a county committee or of an approved sub-committee of such county committee attends a meeting of the committee or sub-committee at a place less than five miles by any route from his residence and is obliged by reason of such attendance to remain away from his home for a continuous period of not less than three hours, and

(ii) a resolution by the committee deciding that this paragraph is to apply in relation to the committee or sub-committee is for the time being in force,

the committee shall pay to the member in relation to the meeting an inclusive allowance (not exceeding an amount specified by the rules made by the Minister for the purposes of paragraph (*a*) of this subsection) in respect of travelling expenses and subsistence, and such allowance shall, in a case in which, apart from this paragraph, an allowance would be payable under paragraph (*a*) of this subsection, be in lieu of and not in addition to, that allowance.

(*e*) A resolution under paragraph (*d*) of this subsection may be revoked at any time by another resolution of the committee concerned.”

(2) Subsection (1) of this section shall come into operation on the 1st day of September, 1962.

##### 6 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Vocational Education (Amendment) Act, 1962.

(2) The Vocational Education Acts, 1930 to 1953, and this Act may be cited together as the Vocational Education Acts, 1930 to 1962.

(3) The Vocational Education Acts, 1930 to 1953, and this Act shall be construed as one.
