---
title: "Tourist Traffic Act  1966"
identifier: "IE-1966-act-3"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1966-02-08"
last_updated: "1966-02-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1966/act/3"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Thrácht Cuartaíochta, 1966"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1966/3"
---
# Tourist Traffic Act  1966

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act “the Act of 1952” means the Tourist Traffic Act, 1952.

(2) The Tourist Traffic Acts, 1939 to 1963, and this Act shall be construed as one.

##### 2 Caravan sites and camping sites.

**2.**—(1) The Tourist Traffic Act, 1939, is hereby amended as follows:

(*a*) by the insertion in section 23 of the following definition, namely: “‘premises’ includes land on which there are no buildings”,

(*b*) by the addition to subsection (1) of section 24 of the following paragraph, namely:

“(*g*) a register to be called and known and in this Act referred to as the register of caravan sites and camping sites.”,

(*c*) by the addition to section 25 of the following paragraph, namely:

“(*g*) the general character, the type of accommodation and services provided and the other qualifications which shall be requisite in respect of any premises in order that such premises may be eligible for registration in the register of caravan sites and camping sites.”, and

(*d*) by the insertion after section 25 of the following section, namely:

“25A. The Minister shall, before giving his consent to the making of regulations under section 25 of this Act prescribing the matters referred to in paragraph (*g*) of that section, consult with the Minister for Local Government.”,

(*e*) by the insertion after section 37 A (inserted by the Tourist Traffic Act, 1957) of the following section, namely:

“37B. (1) It shall not be lawful for the proprietor or occupier of any premises to describe or hold out or permit any person to describe or hold out such premises as a caravan site, caravan park, caravan camp, caravan centre, caravan estate, caravan court, caravantel, camping site, camping park, camping centre, camping estate, camping court or autocamp or as being of any other description prescribed for the purposes of this section unless the premises are registered in the register of caravan sites and camping sites and such proprietor or occupier is registered in that register as the registered proprietor of such premises.

(2) Any person who acts in contravention of this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty pounds together with, in the case of a continuing offence, a further fine not exceeding two pounds for every day during which the offence is continued.

(3) This section shall come into operation on such day as may be appointed in that behalf by order of the Minister.”, and

(*f*) by the insertion in subsection (1) of section 45 after “youth hostels” of “premises registered in the register of caravan sites and camping sites,”.

(2) Section 5 of the Act of 1952 is hereby amended by the insertion in paragraph (*a*) of subsection (2) after “holiday hostels,” of “caravan sites, camping sites,”.

##### 3 Guarantee of loans under Part III of Act of 1952 in currency other than currency of the State.

**3.**—(1) Section 17 of the Act of 1952 is hereby amended by the insertion in subsection (2) after “in such form and manner” of “and in such moneys (including moneys in a currency other than the currency of the State)”.

(2) In relation to a guarantee under Part III of the Act of 1952 by virtue of the amendment effected by subsection (1) of this section, in moneys in a currency other than the currency of the State, each of the references to principal in subsection (1) of section 18 of the Act of 1952 shall be taken as referring to the equivalent in currency of the State of the actual principal, such equivalent being calculated according to the rate of exchange at the time of the giving of the guarantee.

(3) Where—

(*a*) (the equivalent in currency of the State of other currency is being calculated pursuant to subsection (2) of this section, and

(*b*) the currencies having, at the time specified in that subsection, par values established under the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund include the currency of the State and the other currency,

the reference in that subsection to the rate of exchange at that time shall be taken as referring to the rate of exchange based on those values.

##### 4 Purpose of loans guaranteed under Part III of Act of 1952.

**4.**—Section 17 of the Act of 1952 is hereby amended by—

(*a*) the substitution of “for tourists” for “at tourist resorts” in subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (*b*) of subsection (1), and

(*b*) the deletion of “at or to such resorts” in that subparagraph.

##### 5 Extension of time limit on giving of guarantees under Part III of Act of 1952.

**5.**—Section 21 of the Act of 1952 is hereby amended by the substitution of “twenty years from the passing of this Act” for “fifteen years from the passing of this Act” (inserted by the Tourist Traffic Act, 1961).

##### 6 Non-repayable grants.

**6.**—(1) Section 2 of the Tourist Traffic Act, 1959, is hereby amended by—

(*a*) the substitution of “£3,250,000” for “£1,000,000” in paragraph (*a*) of subsection (1), and

(*b*) the substitution of “£3,000,000” for “£1,500,000” (inserted by the Tourist Traffic Act, 1963) in paragraph (*b*) of that subsection.

(2) Section 2 of the Tourist Traffic Act, 1961, is hereby amended by the deletion in subsection (1) of “, not exceeding in the aggregate five million pounds,”.

##### 7 Short title and collective citation.

**7.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Tourist Traffic Act, 1966.

(2) The Tourist Traffic Acts, 1939 to 1963, and this Act may be cited together as the Tourist Traffic Acts, 1939> to 1966.
