---
title: "Local Authorities (Higher Education Grants) Act , 1992"
identifier: "IE-1992-act-19"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1992-07-23"
last_updated: "1992-07-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1992/act/19"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Údaráis Áitiúla (Deontais Ardoideachais), 1992"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1992/19"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Local Authorities (Higher Education Grants) Act , 1992

##### 1 Definition.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Local Authorities (Higher Education Grants) Act, 1968.

##### 2 “mature students”, etc.

**2.**—Section 1 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion after the definition of “approved institution” (inserted by the Local Authorities (Higher Education Grants) Act, 1978) of the following definitions:

“‘mature students’ means persons of not less than 23 years of age, or such other age as may stand specified for the time being in regulations made by the Minister with the consent of the Minister for Finance, who have secured places in approved institutions and have reached that age on the 1st day of January, or such other date as may be prescribed from time to time by the Minister with the consent of the Minister for Finance, in the year of entry to such institutions;

‘spouse’ means each person of a married couple who are living together or a man and woman who are not married to each other but are cohabiting as husband and wife.”.

##### 3 Grants by local authorities to mature students in respect of higher education.

**3.**—Section 2 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion after subsection (1) of the following subsection:

“(1A) A corporation of a county borough or council of a county shall also make grants to mature students who are ordinarily resident in the functional area of the corporation or council for the purposes of assisting mature students to attend approved institutions if—

(*a*) the means (calculated in such manner and by reference to such matters as may be prescribed from time to time by the Minister with the consent of the Minister for Finance) of—

(i) the mature students, if any,

(ii) the parents of mature students who are dependent on their parents, and

(iii) the spouses of mature students,

do not exceed such limits as may be prescribed from time to time by the Minister, with the consent of the Minister for Finance,

(*b*) the mature students comply with such other requirements, including such educational or examination requirements (if any), as may from time to time be prescribed by the Minister, and

(*c*) the mature students do not qualify for grants under subsection (1) of this section.”.

##### 4 School terminal examinations from outside State to count in respect of grants made by local authorities.

**4.**—Section 2 (1) (*a*) of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion after “Leaving Certificate Examination of the Department of Education” of “or at such other school terminal examination held and ordinarily sat outside the State” and the said paragraph, as so amended, is set out in the Table to this section.

TABLE

(*a*) the persons reach such standard at the Leaving Certificate Examination of the Department of Education or at such other school terminal examination held and ordinarily sat outside the State as may be prescribed from time to time by the Minister, with the consent of the Minister for Finance,

##### 5 Application.

**5.**—(1) Section 2 (1A) of the Principal Act (inserted by *section 3* of this Act) shall apply to mature students who have secured places to pursue courses in approved institutions in the year 1992 or subsequent years.

(2) Section 2 (1) (*a*) of the Principal Act (as amended by *section 4* of this Act) shall apply to schemes made under section 5 of the Principal Act in relation to grants made under section 2 of that Act in respect of the year 1992 and subsequent years.

##### 6 Laying of regulations before Houses of Oireachtas.

**6.**—The Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion after section 9 of the following section:

“Laying of regulations before Houses of Oireachtas.

9A—Regulations made under this Act shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after they are made and, if a resolution annulling the regulations is passed by either such House within the next subsequent 21 days on which that House has sat after the regulations are laid before it, the regulations shall be annulled accordingly, but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.”.

##### 7 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**7.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Local Authorities (Higher Education Grants) Act, 1992.

(2) The Local Authorities (Higher Education Grants) Acts, 1968 and 1978, and this Act shall be construed together as one and may be cited together as the Local Authorities (Higher Education Grants) Acts, 1968 to 1992.
