---
title: "Central Fund Act , 1941"
identifier: "IE-1941-act-4"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1941-03-20"
last_updated: "1941-03-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1941/act/4"
title_ga: "An tAcht Prímh-Chiste, 1941"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1941/4"
---
# Central Fund Act , 1941

##### 1 Issue of £18,803 8s. 5d. out of the Central Fund for the service of the year ended 31st March, 1939.

**1.**—The Minister for Finance may issue out of the Central Fund and apply towards making good the supply granted for the service of the year ended on the thirty-first day of March one thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine the sum of Eighteen Thousand Eight Hundred and Three Pounds Eight Shillings and Fivepence.

##### 2 Issue of £4,111,167 out of the Central Fund for the service of the year ending 31st March, 1941.

**2.**—The Minister for Finance may issue out of the Central Fund and apply towards making good the supply granted for the service of the year ending on the thirty-first day of March one thousand nine hundred and forty-one the sum of Four Million One Hundred and Eleven Thousand One Hundred and Sixty-seven Pounds.

##### 3 Issue of £12,350,000 out of the Central Fund for the service of the year ending 31st March, 1942.

**3.**—The Minister for Finance may issue out of the Central Fund and apply towards making good the supply granted for the service of the year ending on the thirty-first day of March one thousand nine hundred and forty-two the sum of Twelve Million Three Hundred and Fifty Thousand Pounds.

##### 4 Power of Minister for Finance to borrow up to £16,479,970 8s. 5d.

**4.**—(1) The Minister for Finance may borrow from any person and the Bank of Ireland may advance to the Minister for Finance any sum or sums not exceeding in the whole Sixteen Million Four Hundred and Seventy-nine Thousand Nine Hundred and Seventy Pounds Eight Shillings and Fivepence and for the purpose of such borrowing the Minister for Finance may create and issue any securities bearing such rate of interest, and subject to such conditions as to repayment, redemption or otherwise as he thinks fit.

(2) The principal and interest of any securities issued under this Act and the expenses incurred in connection with the issue of such securities shall be charged on the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof.

(3) Any money raised by securities issued under this Act shall be placed to the credit of the account of the Exchequer and shall form part of the Central Fund and be available in any manner in which such Fund is available.

##### 5 Short title.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Central Fund Act, 1941.
