---
title: "Maritime Jurisdiction (Amendment) Act , 1964"
identifier: "IE-1964-act-32"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1964-11-24"
last_updated: "1964-11-24"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1964/act/32"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Dhlínse Mhuirí (Leasú), 1964"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1964/32"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Maritime Jurisdiction (Amendment) Act , 1964

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Maritime Jurisdiction Act, 1959.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act shall be construed together as one Act.

##### 2 Extension of the exclusive fishery limits of the State.

**2.**—Subsection (1) of section 6 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution of “line every point of which is at a distance of twelve nautical miles from the nearest point of the baseline” for “outer limits of the territorial seas”.

##### 3 States the fishing vessels of which may fish within exclusive fishery limits.

**3.**—(1) The Government may, with respect to that portion of the exclusive fishery limits of the State which lies outside the line every point of which is at a distance of six nautical miles from the nearest point of the baseline, by order specify the states the fishing vessels of which may fish therein.

(2) The Government may, with respect to that portion of the exclusive fishery limits of the State which lies between—

(*a*) the line every point of which is at a distance of three nautical miles from the nearest point of the baseline, and

(*b*) the line every point of which is at a distance of six nautical miles from the nearest point of the baseline,

by order specify the states the fishing vessels of which may,

until—

(i) the end of the year 1965 in areas off parts of the coast where the baseline is low-water mark, and

(ii) the end of the year 1966 in other areas,

fish therein.

(3) An order under this section may apply differently to different states and vessels and may confine fishing by any vessels to particular stocks of fish or particular fishing grounds.

(4) Fishing under and in accordance with an order under this section shall not be a contravention of the prohibition on fishing by means of a foreign sea-fishing boat imposed by subsection (1) of section 222 of the Fisheries (Consolidation) Act, 1959.

(5) The Government may by order revoke or amend an order under this section.

(6) Every order made under this section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made, and if a resolution annulling the order is passed by either House within the next twenty-one days on which that House has sat after the order has been laid before it, the order shall be annulled accordingly, but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.

##### 4 Amendment of section 13 of Principal Act.

**4.**—Section 13 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion after “The Government may by order” of “(which they may by order revoke or amend)”.

##### 5 Short title, commencement and collective citation.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Maritime Jurisdiction (Amendment) Act, 1964.

(2) This Act shall come into operation on such day as the Government appoint by order.

(3) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Maritime Jurisdiction Acts, 1959 and 1964.
