---
title: "Irish Nationality and Citizenship Act , 1994"
identifier: "IE-1994-act-9"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1994-05-01"
last_updated: "1994-05-01"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1994/act/9"
title_ga: "Acht Náisiúntachta agus Saoránachta Éireann, 1994"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1994/9"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Irish Nationality and Citizenship Act , 1994

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Act of 1956” means the Irish Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1956;

“the Act of 1986” means the Irish Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1986;

“the transitional period” means the period of 6 months referred to in section 8 of the Act of 1986 which commenced on the 1st day of July, 1986, and ended on the 31st day of December, 1986.

##### 2 Registration of births outside Ireland.

**2.**—(1) Where a person, during the transitional period, lodged an application for the registration under section 27 of the Act of 1956 of a birth outside Ireland and the birth would have been registrable under the Irish Nationality and Citizenship Acts, 1956 and 1986, during the transitional period but was not so registered, then—

(*a*) where the birth has not been registered before the passing of this Act, that birth may be registered under the said section 27, or

(*b*) where the birth has been registered after the transitional period but before the passing of this Act, that birth may be re-registered under the said section 27.

(2) A birth registered or re-registered under section 27 of the Act of 1956 by virtue of *subsection (1)* of this section shall be deemed to have been registered on the 1st day of July, 1986.

(3) A birth registered under section 27 of the Act of 1956 during the transitional period shall be deemed to have been registered on the 1st day of July, 1986.

##### 3 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Irish Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1994.

(2) The Irish Nationality and Citizenship Acts, 1956 and 1986, and this Act may be cited together as the Irish Nationality and Citizenship Acts, 1956 to 1994, and shall be construed together as one.
