---
title: "Nurses Act , 1961"
identifier: "IE-1961-act-18"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1961-07-11"
last_updated: "1961-07-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1961/act/18"
title_ga: "Acht na nAltraí, 1961"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1961/18"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Nurses Act , 1961

##### 1 Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Nurses Act, 1950.

##### 2 Nurses who may vote at elections of members of the Board.

**2.**—(1) Rules made for the purposes of section 13 of the Principal Act may specify the class or classes of nurses who may vote in the election of the person or persons specified in any of the paragraphs of subsection (2) of that section.

(2) The Nurses Rules, 1953, and the elections held before the passing of this Act in accordance with those Rules shall be, and shall be deemed always to have been, as valid for all purposes as if subsection (1) of this section had been enacted before those Rules were made.

##### 3 Expenses of members who perform functions on behalf of the Board.

**3.**—Where a member of the Board or of the Committee or any other committee of the Board performs any function on behalf of the Board, the Board may pay to him his travelling and subsistence expenses and the payments shall be in accordance with a scale approved of by the Minister after consultation with the Minister for Finance.

##### 4 Annual grants towards expenses of the Board.

**4.**—(1) The Minister shall make annual grants towards the expenses of the Board.

(2) A grant under this section—

(*a*) shall be of such amount as the Minister determines in consultation with the Minister for Finance and the Board, and

(*b*) shall be made out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

(3) The provisions of section 60 of the Principal Act shall apply to a grant under this section and, for that purpose, the references in that section to a balance under section 59 of the Principal Act shall be construed as references to a grant under this section.

##### 5 Revenue from fees.

**5.**—Where fees referred to in section 24 of the Principal Act are chargeable, the Board shall from time to time by rules so fix their amount that, taking one year with another, the revenue from them is sufficient to meet the Board's expenditure (other than such part of that expenditure as may be determined by the Minister).

##### 6 Information by the Board.

**6.**—The Board shall furnish to the Minister at such times and in such form as the Minister may request such information, with regard to the performance of their functions, as the Minister may require.

##### 7 Appointment and term of office of president of the Board.

**7.**—(1) The Minister shall, as soon as may be after the expiration of every election year, appoint one of the members of the Board to be president thereof.

(2) Where the office of president of the Board becomes vacant, otherwise than by the termination of the term of office of a president, the Minister shall appoint one of the members of the Board to be president thereof.

(3) A president of the Board shall, unless he sooner dies, resigns the office of president, or ceases to be president under subsection (5) of this section, hold office as president until the next appointment under subsection (1) of this section after his appointment as president or, in the case of a person who is president by virtue of subsection (6) of this section, after the passing of this Act.

(4) The president of the Board may at any time resign his office as president by letter sent by registered post to the Board, and the resignation shall take effect at the commencement of the meeting of the Board held next after the receipt of the letter if the resignation is not withdrawn in writing before that meeting.

(5) Where the president of the Board ceases during his term of office as president to be a member of the Board, he shall be disqualified for being and shall forthwith cease to be such president.

(6) Where a person held the office of president of the Board immediately before the passing of this Act, he shall notwithstanding the repeal by this Act of section 16 of the Principal Act, continue to hold that office.

(7) Where the office of president of the Board was vacant immediately before the passing of this Act, the Minister shall appoint one of the members of the Board to be president thereof.

##### 8 Repeals.

**8.**—The enactments mentioned in the Schedule to this Act are hereby repealed to the extent specified in the third column of that Schedule.

##### 9 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**9.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Nurses Act, 1961.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act shall be construed together as one Act.

(3) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Nurses Acts, 1950 and 1961.

## SCHEDULE. Enactments Repealed.

| Number and Year. | Short title. | Extent of Repeal. |
| --- | --- | --- |
| (1) | (2) | (3) |
| No. 10 of 1944. | Midwives Act, 1944. | Section 44. |
| No. 27 of 1950. | Nurses Act, 1950. | Sections 16 and 59. |
