---
title: "Social Welfare (Reciprocal Arrangements) Act , 1948"
identifier: "IE-1948-act-10"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1948-07-02"
last_updated: "1948-07-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1948/act/10"
title_ga: "An tAcht Leasa Shóisialaigh (Comhar-Shocraíochta), 1948"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1948/10"
---
# Social Welfare (Reciprocal Arrangements) Act , 1948

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “the Minister” means the Minister for Social Welfare;

the expression “the Society” means Cumann and Árachais Náisiúnta ar Shláinte.

##### 2 Reciprocal arrangements with other countries in relation to certain social welfare services.

**2.**—The Minister may, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, make, with the proper authority of any other country, reciprocal or other arrangements in respect of matters relating to—

(*a*) National Health Insurance,

(*b*) Unemployment Insurance,

(*c*) Widows' and Orphans' Pensions Insurance,

(*d*) compensation or benefit payable in respect of injuries arising out of and in the course of a person's employment, and diseases or injuries due to the nature of a person's employment.

##### 3 Power to make orders.

**3.**—(1) The Minister may make such orders as may be necessary to carry out any arrangement made under section 2 of this Act, and may by any such order make such adaptations of and modifications in any enactment for the time being in force relating to the subject matter of the arrangement as he considers necessary.

(2) Every order under this section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made.

##### 4 Amendment of section 7 of the Widows' and Orphans' Pensions Act, 1947.

**4.**—The reference in subsection (5) of section 7 of the Widows' and Orphans' Pensions Act, 1947 (No. 8 of 1947), to reciprocal arrangements shall be construed as including a reference to any arrangement made under section 2 of this Act in respect of matters relating to Widows' and Orphans' Pensions Insurance.

##### 5 Power of Society to alter rules.

**5.**—The Committee of Management of the Society, with the consent of the Minister, may, for the purpose of giving effect to any arrangement made under section 2 of this Act in respect of matters relating to National Health Insurance, add to or alter any of the rules of the Society.

##### 6 Expenses.

**6.**—The expenses incurred by the Minister in the administration of this Act shall, to such extent as may be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

##### 7 Short title.

**7.**—This Act may be cited as the Social Welfare (Reciprocal Arrangements) Act, 1948.
