---
title: "Public Charitable Hospitals (Amendment) Act , 1932"
identifier: "IE-1932-act-8"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1932-07-02"
last_updated: "1932-07-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1932/act/8"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Oispidéil Phuiblí Dhéirciúla (Leasú) 1932"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1932/8"
---
# Public Charitable Hospitals (Amendment) Act , 1932

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—(1) In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Public Charitable Hospitals (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1930 (No. 12 of 1930).

(2) All expressions and words to which a particular meaning is given by sub-section (1) of section 1 of the Principal Act have in this Act the meanings so given to them respectively.

##### 2 Extension of the Principal Act to a certain hospital.

**2.**—Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2) of section 1 of the Principal Act, that Act shall extend and apply to the following hospital, that is to say, the Royal National Hospital for Consumption, Newcastle, Co. Wicklow.

##### 3 Application of this Act.

**3.**—This Act shall not apply or have effect in relation to any scheme which has been sanctioned under the Principal Act by the Minister before the passing of this Act or to any sweepstake held under the Principal Act, whether before or after the passing of this Act, in pursuance of a scheme so sanctioned.

##### 4 Short title, citation, and duration.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Public Charitable Hospitals (Amendment) Act, 1932.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Public Charitable Hospitals Acts, 1930 and 1931, and those Acts and this Act shall be cited together as the Public Charitable Hospitals Acts, 1930 to 1932.

(3) This Act shall remain in force for so long as the Principal Act continues in force and no longer.
