---
title: "Sea Fisheries (Amendment) Act , 1959"
identifier: "IE-1959-act-28"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1959-08-11"
last_updated: "1959-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1959/act/28"
title_ga: "An tAcht Iascaigh Mhara (Leasú), 1959"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1959/28"
---
# Sea Fisheries (Amendment) Act , 1959

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Board” means An Bord Iascaigh Mhara;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Lands;

“the Principal Act” means the Sea Fisheries Act, 1952.

##### 2 Increase of limit on advances to the Board.

**2.**—Subsection (1) of section 18 of the Principal Act, as amended by section 1 of the Sea Fisheries (Amendment) Act, 1956, is hereby amended by the substitution of “three million pounds” for “one million pounds”.

##### 3 Amendment of period of office of members of the Board.

**3.**—The reference in subparagraph (3) of paragraph 2 of the First Schedule to the Principal Act to a period of two years shall, in relation to appointments of members of the Board effected after the passing of this Act, be construed as a reference to three years, subject to the proviso that, in the case of the appointment of the members whose periods of appointment are to begin on the 24th day of April, 1960,—

(*a*) such two of the six members being appointed as the Minister thinks proper to appoint for two years only shall be appointed for that period, and

(*b*) such two of the six members being appointed as the Minister thinks proper to appoint for one year only shall be appointed for that period.

##### 4 Amendment of restriction on licensing of vessels for sea-fishing.

**4**— (1) Subsection (1) of section 9 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution of “the prescribed number (not less than thirty-five) of” for “thirty-five”.

(2) Paragraph (*a*) of subsection (3) of section 9 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution of “body corporate established under and subject to the law of the State and having its principal place of business in the State” for “company incorporated under the Companies Acts, 1908 to 1924, the whole of the share capital of which is held by Irish citizens”.

##### 5 Repeal.

**5.**—Subsection (6) of section 9 of the Principal Act is hereby repealed.

##### 6 Short title and collective citation.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Sea Fisheries (Amendment) Act, 1959.

(2) The Sea Fisheries Acts, 1952 to 1956, and this Act may be cited together as the Sea Fisheries Acts, 1952 to 1959.
