---
title: "B & I Line Act , 1988"
identifier: "IE-1988-act-4"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1988-03-16"
last_updated: "1988-03-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1988/act/4"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Líne B & I, 1988"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1988/4"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# B & I Line Act , 1988

##### 1 “the Company”.

**1.**—In the British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition) Acts, 1965 to 1986, “the Company” means the company formerly known as the British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited and re-registered under the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1983, under the name of B & I Line public limited company by a certificate of incorporation dated the 3rd day of July, 1986.

##### 2 Purchase of additional shares of B & I Line by Minister for Finance.

**2.**—Section 2 of the British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition) (Amendment) Act, 1971, is hereby amended by the substitution of “one hundred million ordinary shares” for “ninety-six million ordinary shares” (inserted by the British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition) (Amendment) Act, 1986), and the said section 2, as so amended, is set out in the Table to this section.

TABLE

The Minister for Finance may purchase, in addition to the ordinary shares of the Company purchased by him under the agreement approved of by section 2 of the Principal Act, not more than one hundred million ordinary shares of the Company of £1 each.

##### 3 Short title and collective citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the B & I Line Act, 1988.

(2) The British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition) Acts, 1965 to 1986, and this Act may be cited together as the B & I Line Acts, 1965 to 1988.
