---
title: "Arts Act , 1951"
identifier: "IE-1951-act-9"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1951-05-08"
last_updated: "1951-05-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1951/act/9"
title_ga: "An tAcht Ealaíon, 1951"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1951/9"
---
# Arts Act , 1951

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “the arts” means painting, sculpture, architecture, music, the drama, literature, design in industry and the fine arts and applied arts generally;

the expression “the Council” means the body established by section 2 of this Act.

##### 2 Establishment of An Chomhairle Ealaíon.

**2.**—(1) On the passing of this Act there shall by virtue of this subsection stand established a body to be called An Chomhairle Ealaíon to fulfil the functions assigned to them by or under this Act.

(2) The provisions of the Schedule to this Act shall have effect in relation to the Council.

##### 3 Functions of the Council.

**3.**—(1) The Council shall, by such means and in such manner as they think fit,—

(*a*) stimulate public interest in the arts,

(*b*) promote the knowledge, appreciation and practice of the arts,

(*c*) assist in improving the standards of the arts,

(*d*) organise or assist in the organising of exhibitions (within or without the State) of works of art and artistic craftsmanship.

(2) The Council shall advise the Government or a member of the Government on any matter (being a matter on which knowledge and experience of the arts has a bearing) on which their advice is requested.

(3) The Council may co-operate with and assist any other persons concerned directly or indirectly with matters relating to the arts, and the assistance may include payments by the Council upon such terms and conditions as they think fit.

(4) (*a*) The Government may from time to time by order confer or impose on the Council such additional functions as the Government think proper and specify in the order, and any order made under this paragraph may contain such incidental and supplementary provisions as the Government think necessary or expedient for giving full effect to the order.

(*b*) The Government may by order revoke or amend any order made under this subsection (including this paragraph).

(*c*) An order under this subsection shall not come into operation unless it is confirmed by resolution of each House of the Oireachtas, but shall, as from the date of the passing of the later of those resolutions, have statutory effect.

##### 4 Acceptance of gifts by the Council.

**4.**—The Council may accept gifts of money, land and other property for purposes connected with their functions, but shall not accept any gift if the conditions attached thereto are inconsistent with their functions.

##### 5 State endowment of the Council.

**5.**—(1) There shall be paid to the Council annually out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas a grant of such amount as the Taoiseach shall determine.

(2) Any grant made to the Council under subsection (1) of this section shall, subject to paragraphs 3 and 8 of the Schedule to this Act, be expended by them for such purposes connected with their functions as in their discretion they think fit.

##### 6 Accounts and audit.

**6.**—(1) The Council shall keep accounts of their income and expenditure in such form as may be approved by the Minister for Finance.

(2) The accounts of the Council shall be submitted annually by the Council to the Comptroller and Auditor General for audit at such time as the Minister for Finance may direct.

(3) An abstract of the accounts of the Council for each year, when audited, together with the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General on the accounts, shall be presented to the Government, and copies thereof shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas.

##### 7 Reports.

**7.**—(1) The Council shall present to the Government annually a report of their proceedings during the previous year, and a copy thereof shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas.

(2) The Council shall furnish to the Government such information with regard to the exercise of their functions as the Government may from time to time require.

##### 8 Short title.

**8.**—This Act may be cited as the Arts Act, 1951.

## SCHEDULE. Provisions Applicable to the Council.
