---
title: "Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act , 1964"
identifier: "IE-1964-act-34"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1964-12-08"
last_updated: "1964-12-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1964/act/34"
title_ga: "Acht na dTithe (Gaeltacht) (Leasú), 1964"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1964/34"
---
# Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act , 1964

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act—

“the Act of 1929” means the Housing (Gaeltacht) Act, 1929;

“the Act of 1949” means the Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1949;

“the Act of 1953” means the Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1953;

“the Act of 1959” means the Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1959.

(2) The Housing (Gaeltacht) Acts, 1929 to 1959, and this Act shall be construed as one.

##### 2 Increase of limits on certain grants.

**2.**—(1) The amount of a grant under subsection (1) of section 3 of the Act of 1929 shall, where the erection of the dwelling-house commenced on or after the 1st day of October, 1963, and before the passing of this Act or commences after such passing, not exceed the appropriate sum specified in the First Schedule to this Act.

(2) The amount of a grant under subsection (2) of section 3 of the Act of 1929 shall, where the work towards which the grant is made commenced on or after the 1st day of October, 1963, and before the passing of this Act or commences after such passing, not exceed—

(*a*) as respects a dwelling-house containing, on completion of the improvement or extension, three rooms—one hundred and thirty pounds,

(*b*) as respects a dwelling-house containing, on completion of the improvement or extension, four rooms—one hundred and fifty pounds, and

(*c*) as respects a dwelling-house containing, on completion of the improvement or extension, five or more rooms—one hundred and seventy pounds.

(3) The amount of a grant under subsection (7) (inserted by subsection (1) of section 3 of the Act of 1959) of section 3 of the Act of 1929 shall, where the erection of the dwelling-house commenced on or after the 1st day of October, 1963, and before the passing of this Act or commences after such passing, not exceed the appropriate sum specified in the First Schedule to this Act.

(4) (*a*) The limitation imposed by subsection (1) of section 2 of the Act of 1959 shall not apply in any case in which subsection (1) of this section applies.

(*b*) The limitation imposed by subsection (2) of section 2 of the Act of 1959 shall not apply in any case to which subsection (2) of this section applies.

(*c*) The limitation imposed by subsection (4) of section 3 of the Act of 1959 shall not apply in any case to which subsection (3) of this section applies.

##### 3 Grants in relation to houses.

**3.**—(1) In paragraphs (*a*), (*b*) and (*c*) of subsection (5) (inserted by subsection (1) of section 3 of the Act of 1959) of section 3 of the Act of 1929, references to sixty pounds, thirty-five pounds and one hundred and fifty pounds shall be substituted for the references to fifty-five pounds, thirty pounds and one hundred and forty pounds respectively where the work towards which the grant is made commenced on or after the 1st day of October, 1963, and before the passing of this Act or commences after such passing.

(2) In the Table to subsection (6) (inserted by subsection (1) of section 3 of the Act of 1959) of section 3 of the Act of 1929—

(*a*) with respect to the first case referred to in the first column of the Table, a reference to £130 shall be substituted for the reference to £100, a reference to £240 shall be substituted for the reference to £180 and a reference to £350 shall be substituted for the reference to £260,

(*b*) with respect to the second case referred to in that column, a reference to £110 shall be substituted for the reference to £80 and a reference to £220 shall be substituted for each of the two references to £160, and

(*c*) with respect to the third case referred to in that column, a reference to £110 shall be substituted for each of the three references to £80,

where the provision of the extension commenced on or after the 1st day of October, 1963, and before the passing of this Act or commences after such passing.

##### 4 Holiday chalet building grants, hostel building grants.

**4.**—(1) (*a*) In subsection (1) of section 3A (inserted by section 4 of the Act of 1959) of the Act of 1929, a reference to £300 shall be substituted for the reference to £200 where the erection of the holiday chalet commenced on or after the 1st day of October, 1963, and before the passing of this Act or commences after such passing.

(*b*) The Minister may, pursuant to subsection (1) (as amended by the foregoing paragraph) of the said section 3A, make such number of holiday chalet building grants as he considers appropriate to any body of persons approved of by him for the purpose of erecting groups of holiday chalets where the erection of the holiday chalets commenced on or after the 1st day of October, 1963, and before the passing of this Act or commences after such passing and, in any such case, the restrictions contained in that subsection with regard to ordinary residence and habitual use of the Irish language and the restriction contained in subsection (3) of the said section 3A shall not apply.

(2) In subsection (2) of the said section 3A, a reference to £6,000 shall be substituted for the reference to £5,000 where the erection of the hostel commenced on or after the 1st day of October, 1963, and before the passing of this Act or commences after such passing.

##### 5 Increase of limit on loans in amplification of holiday chalet building grants.

**5.**—In subsection (3) of section 5 of the Act of 1959 a reference to £300 shall be substituted for the reference to £200.

##### 6 Refusal of grant on account of receipt of previous grant.

**6.**—The Minister may, in his absolute discretion, refuse to make a building grant or an improving grant where the applicant has, during the period of seven years ending when the application is made, received a building grant or an improving grant in respect of another dwelling-house.

##### 7 Repeals.

**7.**—The enactments mentioned in the second column of the Second Schedule to this Act are hereby repealed to the extent mentioned in the third column of that Schedule.

##### 8 Short title and collective citation.

**8.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1964.

(2) The Housing (Gaeltacht) Acts, 1929 to 1959, and this Act may be cited together as the Housing (Gaeltacht) Acts, 1929 to 1964.

## FIRST SCHEDULE. Building Grants in respect of Dwelling-houses.

|  | Number of rooms in dwelling-house on completion |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  | 3 | 4 | 5 or more |
|  | £ | £ | £ |
| Where sewerage and piped water supply are not installed. | 230 | 305 | 380 |
| Where sewerage and piped water supply are installed, public water supply or sewerage services are available and a fitted bathroom with hot-water supply is provided. | 375 | 450 | 525 |
| Where sewerage and piped water supply are installed, public water supply or sewerage services are available and a fitted bathroom with hot-water supply is not provided. | 275 | 350 | 425 |
| Where sewerage and piped water supply are installed, no public water supply or sewerage services are available and a fitted bathroom with hot-water supply is provided. | 400 | 475 | 550 |
| Where sewerage and piped water supply are installed, no public water supply or sewerage services are available and a fitted bathroom with hot-water supply is not provided. | 300 | 375 | 450 |

## SECOND SCHEDULE. Enactments Repealed.

| Number and Year | Short Title | Extent of Repeal |
| --- | --- | --- |
| No. 4 of 1949. | Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1949. | Subsection (1) of section 3. |
| No. 6 of 1953. | Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1953. | Section 5. |
