---
title: "Control of Imports (Amendment) Act , 1963"
identifier: "IE-1963-act-13"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1963-06-26"
last_updated: "1963-06-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1963/act/13"
title_ga: "An tAcht chun Allmhairí a Rialú (Leasú), 1963"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1963/13"
---
# Control of Imports (Amendment) Act , 1963

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act—

“the Principal Act” means the Control of Imports Act, 1934;

“quota order” means an order made under section 3 of the Principal Act.

(2) References in section 2 of the Principal Act to that Act shall be construed as including references to this Act.

##### 2 Power to exempt goods from particular countries from quota orders.

**2.**—The Government may in and by a quota order exempt from the prohibition effected by the order goods which are shown to the satisfaction of the Revenue Commissioners either (as shall be specified in the Order)—

(*a*) to have been manufactured or produced in a specified country or countries,

(*b*) to have been consigned to the importer from a specified country or countries, or

(*c*) to have been manufactured or produced in a specified country or countries and consigned to the importer from that country or those countries.

##### 3 Power to exempt goods from particular countries from quota orders already made.

**3.**—The Government may, by order under section 11 of the Principal Act, exempt from the prohibition effected by a specified quota order or quota orders made before the passing of this Act goods which are shown to the satisfaction of the Revenue Commissioners either (as shall be specified in the Order)—

(*a*) to have been manufactured or produced in a specified country or countries,

(*b*) to have been consigned to the importer from a specified country or countries, or

(*c*) to have been manufactured or produced in a specified country or countries and consigned to the importer from that country or those countries.

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Control of Imports (Amendment) Act, 1963.

(2) The Control of Imports Acts, 1934 and 1937, and this Act may be cited together as the Control of Imports Acts, 1934 to 1963.
