---
title: "Dangerous Substances (Amendment) Act , 1979"
identifier: "IE-1979-act-21"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1979-07-24"
last_updated: "1979-07-24"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1979/act/21"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Shubstaintí Contúirteacha (Leasú), 1979"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1979/21"
---
# Dangerous Substances (Amendment) Act , 1979

##### 1 Amendment of Dangerous Substances Act, 1972.

**1.**—The Dangerous Substances Act, 1972, is hereby amended by the substitution for subsection (2) of section 1 of the following subsection:

“(2) This Act shall come into operation on such day or days as the Minister may by order or orders appoint therefor either generally or with reference to any particular purpose or provision and different days may be so fixed for different purposes and different provisions.”

##### 2 Advisory Council.

**2.**—(1) There shall be a council (in this section referred to as the Advisory Council) consisting of a chairman and such number of ordinary members as the Minister considers appropriate who shall consider and advise the Minister on any matters arising on or in relation to the execution of the Dangerous Substances Act, 1972, which the Minister may refer to the Advisory Council.

(2) The chairman and the ordinary members shall be appointed by the Minister and shall hold office for such period as the Minister may decide.

(3) On the request of the Advisory Council and subject to the consent of the Minister an inspector may attend a meeting of the Advisory Council for the purpose of giving any information which the Advisory Council may request for the purposes of discharging its functions.

##### 3 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Dangerous Substances (Amendment) Act, 1979.

(2) The Dangerous Substances Act, 1972, and this Act may be cited together as the Dangerous Substances Acts, 1972 and 1979, and shall be construed together as one.
