---
title: "Electricity (Supply)(Amendment) Act , 1962"
identifier: "IE-1962-act-24"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1962-08-07"
last_updated: "1962-08-07"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1962/act/24"
title_ga: "An tAcht Leictreachais (Soláthar)(Leasú), 1962"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1962/24"
---
# Electricity (Supply)(Amendment) Act , 1962

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Acts” means the Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1961;

“the Board” means the Electricity Supply Board;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Transport and Power.

##### 2 Amendment of sections 2 and 3 of Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1958.

**2.**—Sections 2 and 3 of the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1958, are hereby amended by the substitution of “thirty-seven million” for “thirty-two million” (inserted by the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1961) in each of those sections.

##### 3 Increase of total expenditure for general purposes.

**3.**—The total expenditure of the Board for general purposes, that is to say, for capital purposes other than the electrification of rural areas, shall not exceed one hundred and thirty-five million pounds and, accordingly, subsection (1) of section 2 of the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1954, shall be construed as if that sum were substituted for the sum mentioned therein.

##### 4 Provision of moneys for electricity distribution systems in non-electrified rural areas.

**4.**—(1) The Minister for Finance may, on the recommendation of the Minister, advance to the Board, as and when requested by the Board to do so, the whole of the capital expenditure of the Board in the provision and installation of systems of distribution for electricity at ten thousand volts in rural areas which have not been, and, but for the advances provided for under this section, would not be, electrified by the Board until, but only until, the total of such expenditure of the Board amounts to the sum of ninety thousand pounds.

(2) All moneys advanced to the Board under the foregoing subsection of this section shall be issued from and paid out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof.

(3) The moneys advanced to the Board under this section by the Minister for Finance shall be repaid to the Central Fund out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas at such time or times as the Minister for Finance shall direct.

##### 5 Provision of moneys for further development in electrified rural areas.

**5.**—(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, the Minister for Finance may, on the recommendation of the Minister, and until, but only until, the time when the total expenditure of the Board for the electrification of rural areas amounts to the sum of thirty-seven million pounds or the 17th day of April, 1967, whichever is the earlier, advance to the Board, as and when requested by the Board to do so three-quarters of the capital expenditure incurred by the Board, whether before or after the passing of this Act, after the 17th day of April, 1962, in connecting premises to systems of distribution for electricity in rural areas to which a supply of electricity has previously been extended, and three-quarters of the capital expenditure incurred by the Board, whether before or after the passing of this Act, after the said 17th day of April, 1962, in improving systems of distribution for electricity in rural areas to which a supply of electricity has previously been extended.

(2) Not more than seventy-five pounds shall be advanced to the Board under subsection (1) of this section in respect of the capital expenditure incurred by the Board in connecting a house used as a dwelling to a system of distribution for electricity.

(3) All moneys advanced to the Board under the foregoing subsection of this section shall be issued from and paid out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof.

(4) The moneys advanced to the Board under this section by the Minister for Finance shall be repaid to the Central Fund out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas at such time or times as the Minister for Finance shall direct.

##### 6 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1962.

(2) The Acts and this Act may be cited together as the Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1962.

(3) The Acts and this Act shall be construed together as one Act.
