---
title: "Agriculture (Amendment) Act , 1934"
identifier: "IE-1934-act-20"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1934-05-25"
last_updated: "1934-05-25"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1934/act/20"
title_ga: "An tAcht Talmhaíochta (Leasú), 1934"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1934/20"
---
# Agriculture (Amendment) Act , 1934

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—(1) In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Agriculture Act, 1931 (No. 8 of 1931).

(2) Every word and expression to which a particular meaning is given by the Principal Act for the purposes of that Act has in this Act the meaning so given to it.

##### 2 Amendment of section 18 of the Principal Act.

**2.**—(1) Where a person is appointed during any half yearly period, to fill a casual vacancy in the membership of a committee of agriculture, contributions shall, notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2) of section 18 of the Principal Act, be payable under the said section 18 to such person in respect of his attendance at meetings of such committee held after the date of his appointment and before the end of such half-yearly period if he has attended at least half of such meetings.

(2) Each of the following periods shall be a half-yearly period for the purposes of this section, that is to say:—

(*a*) the period of six months ending on the 31st day of December in any year;

(*b*) the period of six months ending on the 30th day of June in any year.

##### 3 Persons entitled to benefit of agricultural schemes.

**3.**—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 33 of the Principal Act, no advantage offered for the purposes of agriculture and other rural industries by a committee of agriculture in pursuance of an agricultural scheme administered by such committee shall be given in respect of any land situate outside the functional area of such committee or in respect of any horses, cattle or other live stock, or poultry or bees kept outside such functional area, unless under and in accordance with the express provisions of such scheme.

(2) For the purposes of this section the functional area of the committee of agriculture for a county shall be such county, excluding any urban districts comprised therein.

##### 4 Amendment of Second Schedule to the Principal Act.

**4.**—(1) For the purposes of Rules 3 and 4 of the Second Schedule to the Principal Act, the borough of Dun Laoghaire shall be deemed not to be a county electoral area of the county of Dublin.

(2) This section shall come into force upon the commencement of the annual meeting of the council of the county of Dublin held next after the first triennial election of members of the said council held after the passing of this Act.

##### 5 Short title and citation.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Agriculture (Amendment) Act, 1934, and the Principal Act, and this Act may be cited together as the Agriculture Acts 1931 and 1934.
