---
title: "Central Fund Act , 1925"
identifier: "IE-1925-act-6"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1925-03-31"
last_updated: "1925-03-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1925/act/6"
title_ga: "An tAcht Prímh-Chiste, 1925"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1925/6"
---
# Central Fund Act , 1925

##### 1 Issue of £1,138,672 out of the Central Fund for the service of the year ending 31st March, 1925.

**1.**—The Minister for Finance may issue out of the Central Fund and apply towards making good the supply granted for the service of the year ending on the thirty-first day of March one thousand nine hundred and twenty-five the sum of One Million, One Hundred and Thirty-Eight Thousand, Six Hundred and Seventy-two Pounds.

##### 2 Issue of £9,157,834 out of the Central Fund for the service of the year ending 31st March, 1926.

**2.**—The Minister for Finance may issue out of the Central Fund and apply towards making good the supply granted for the service of the year ending on the thirty-first day of March one thousand nine hundred and twenty-six the sum of Nine Million, One Hundred and Fifty-seven Thousand, Eight Hundred and Thirty-four Pounds.

##### 3 Power of Minister for Finance to borrow.

**3.**—(1) The Minister for Finance may borrow from any person and the Bank of Ireland may advance to the Minister for Finance, on the credit of the said sums any sum or sums not exceeding in the whole Ten Million, Two Hundred and Ninety-six Thousand, Five Hundred and Six Pounds, and for the purpose of such borrowing the Minister for Finance may create and issue any securities bearing such rate of interest, and subject to such conditions as to repayment, redemption or otherwise as he thinks fit.

(2) The principal and interest of any securities issued under this Act and the expenses incurred in connection with the issue of such securities shall be charged on the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof.

(3) Any money raised by securities issued under this Act shall be placed to the credit of the account of the Exchequer and shall form part of the Central Fund and be available in any manner in which such Fund is available.

##### 4 Short title.

**4.**—This Act may be cited as the Central Fund Act, 1925.
