---
title: "Old Age Pensions Act , 1928"
identifier: "IE-1928-act-1"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1928-03-30"
last_updated: "1928-03-30"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1928/act/1"
title_ga: "Acht na bPinsean Sean-Aoise, 1928"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1928/1"
---
# Old Age Pensions Act , 1928

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “the Old Age Pensions Acts” means the Old Age Pensions Acts, 1908 to 1924, and

the expression “old age pension” means an old age pension under the Old Age Pensions Acts, and includes a pension under section 1 of the Blind Persons Act, 1920.

##### 2 Rate of old age pensions in certain cases.

**2.**—Where the yearly means as calculated under the Old Age Pensions Acts of any person who is in receipt of or entitled to an old age pension do not exceed fifteen pounds twelve shillings and sixpence the old age pension of such person shall as on and from the date of the commencement of this Act be at the rate of ten shillings per week and the First Schedule to the Old Age Pensions Act, 1924 (No. 19 of 1924) shall be and is hereby amended accordingly.

##### 3 Determination of claims and questions.

**3.**—(1) Where any person who is at the date of the commencement of this Act in receipt of an old age pension or whose claim for an old age pension has before the said date been provisionally allowed claims that the rate of such pension should be increased so as to be at the rate mentioned in the foregoing section, such claim, instead of being considered and determined in the manner provided by section 7 (which relates to the determination of claims and questions) of the Old Age Pensions Act, 1908, shall be considered and determined by the pension officer.

(2) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision under this section of a pension officer may appeal against such decision to the local pension committee who shall consider the case and give their decision thereon in the same manner and subject to the like appeal as if such decision of the pension officer were the report of such officer on a claim referred to him for report and inquiry under section 7 of the Old Age Pensions Act, 1908.

##### 4 Short title, construction and commencement.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Old Age Pensions Act, 1928.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Old Age Pensions Acts, and those Acts and this Act may be cited together as the Old Age Pensions Acts, 1908 to 1928.

(3) This Act shall come into operation on the 6th day of April, 1928.
