---
title: "Standard Time (Amendment) Act , 1971"
identifier: "IE-1971-act-17"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1971-07-20"
last_updated: "1971-07-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1971/act/17"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Am Caighdeánach (Leasú), 1971"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1971/17"
---
# Standard Time (Amendment) Act , 1971

##### 1 Winter time.

**1.**—(1) (*a*) Notwithstanding section 1 (1) of the Standard Time Act, 1968, the time for general purposes in the State shall during a period of winter time be Greenwich mean time, and during such a period any reference in any enactment or any legal document (whether passed or made before or after the passing of this Act) to a specified point of time shall be construed accordingly unless it is otherwise expressly provided.

(*b*) The period beginning at two o'clock Greenwich mean time in the morning of the 31st day of October, 1971, and ending at two o'clock Greenwich mean time in the morning of the 19th day of March, 1972, shall for the purposes of this Act be a period of winter time.

(*c*) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, the period beginning at two o'clock Greenwich mean time in the morning of the Sunday following the fourth Saturday in October in any year after 1971 and ending either at two o'clock Greenwich mean time in the morning of the Sunday following the third Saturday in the month of March in the following year or, if the last-mentioned Sunday is Easter Day, at two o'clock Greenwich mean time in the morning of the Sunday following the second Saturday in the month of March in that year shall for the purposes of this Act be a period of winter time.

(2) The Minister for Justice may by order do all or any of the following—

(*a*) vary the period of winter time prescribed by subsection (1) (*c*) of this section, either generally or for a specified year or specified years,

(*b*) prescribe, either generally or for a specified year or specified years but not so as to affect the operation of subsection (1) (*b*) of this section, that there shall be no period of winter time,

(*c*) amend or revoke any order under this subsection (including this paragraph).

(3) An order under this section shall not come into operation until it has been approved by resolution of each House of the Oireachtas.

##### 2 Short title.

**2.**—This Act may be cited as the Standard Time (Amendment) Act, 1971.
