---
title: "Treaty (Confirmation of Supplemental Agreement) Act , 1924"
identifier: "IE-1924-act-51"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1924-10-25"
last_updated: "1924-10-25"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1924/act/51"
title_ga: "Acht an Chonnartha (Daingniú ar an gCó-aontú Fóirlíontach), 1924"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1924/51"
---
# Treaty (Confirmation of Supplemental Agreement) Act , 1924

##### 1 Confirmation of Agreement.

**1.**—The Agreement set forth in the Schedule to this Act, being an agreement supplementing Article 12 of the Treaty of 1921, is hereby confirmed, and the said Treaty of 1921 shall have effect accordingly.

##### 2 Short title and commencement.

**2.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Treaty (Confirmation of Supplemental Agreement) Act, 1924.

(2) This Act shall come into operation immediately on the passing thereof.

## SCHEDULE.

Agreement supplementing Article Twelve of the Articles of Agreement for a Treaty between Great Britain and Ireland to which the force of law was given by the Irish Free State (Agreement) Act, 1922, and by the Constitution of the Irish Free State (Saorstát Eireann) Act, 1922.

WHEREAS the Commissioners to be appointed under the said Article Twelve by the Government of the Irish Free State and by by those respective Governments, but the Government of Northern Ireland has declined to appoint the Commissioner to be so appointed by that Government, and no provision is made by the said Articles for such a contingency;

NOW it is hereby agreed, subject to the confirmation of this Agreement by the British Parliament and the Oireachtas of the Irish Free State, that, if the Government of Northern Ireland does not before the date of the passing of the Act of the British Parliament or of the Act of the Oireachtas of the Irish Free State confirming this Agreement, whichever is the later date, appoint the Commissioner to be so appointed by that Government, the power of the Government of Northern Ireland to appoint such Commissioner shall thereupon be transferred to and exercised by the British Government, and that for the purposes of the said Article any Commissioner so appointed by the British Government shall be deemed to be a Commissioner appointed by the Government of Northern Ireland and that the said Articles of Agreement for a Treaty shall have effect accordingly.

| Signed on behalf of the British Government: | Signed on behalf of the Irish Free State Government: |
| --- | --- |

| J. RAMSAY MacDONALD. | LIAM T. MAC COSGAIR. |
| --- | --- |
| August 4, 1924. |  |
