---
title: "Turf Development Act , 1968"
identifier: "IE-1968-act-28"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1968-07-23"
last_updated: "1968-07-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1968/act/28"
title_ga: "An tAcht Forbartha Móna, 1968"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1968/28"
---
# Turf Development Act , 1968

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Act of 1946” means the Turf Development Act, 1946;

“the Board” means Board na Móna;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Transport and Power.

##### 2 Waiver of interest on advances to Board.

**2.**—(1) The Minister for Finance may, after consultation with the Minister in respect of each year of the four-year period commencing on the 1st day of April, 1967, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Minister for Finance may determine after such consultation, by order waive all of the interest due in any of those years by the Board on sums advanced to the Board under section 53 of the Act of 1946 or such part of that interest as is specified in the order.

(2) The Minister for Finance may, after consultation with the Minister, by order amend or revoke an order under this section.

##### 3 Deferment of repayment of advances to Board.

**3.**—(1) The Minister for Finance may, after consultation with the Minister in respect of each year of the four-year period commencing on the 1st day of April, 1967, and subject to such terms and conditions as the Minister for Finance may determine after such consultation by order permit the deferment by the Board for such period as is specified in the order (not being a period ending after the 31st day of March, 1971) of payment of all of the moneys due by the Board in repayment of sums advanced to the Board under section 53 of the Act of 1946 or such part of those moneys as is specified in the order.

(2) The Minister for Finance may, after consultation with the Minister, by order amend or revoke an order under this section.

##### 4 Laying of orders before the Oireachtas.

**4.**—Every order made under this Act shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made and, if a resolution annulling the order is passed by either such House within the next twenty-one days on which that House has sat after the order is laid before it, the order shall be annulled accordingly, but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.

##### 5 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Turf Development Act, 1968.

(2) The Turf Development Acts, 1946 to 1965, and this Act shall be construed together as one Act and may be cited together as the Turf Development Acts, 1946 to 1968.
