---
title: "Imposition of Duties (Confirmation of Orders) Act , 1938"
identifier: "IE-1938-act-19"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1938-07-20"
last_updated: "1938-07-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1938/act/19"
title_ga: "An tAcht chun Diúitéthe do Ghearradh (Orduithe do Dhaingniú), 1938"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1938/19"
---
# Imposition of Duties (Confirmation of Orders) Act , 1938

##### 1 Confirmation of Orders.

**1.**—(1) The several Orders mentioned in the third column of the Schedule to this Act, and made under the Emergency Imposition of Duties Act, 1932 (No. 16 of 1932), are hereby confirmed.

(2) The particulars stated in the second and, fourth columns, respectively, of the Schedule to this Act in relation to the Orders mentioned in the third column of the said Schedule are inserted in the said Schedule solely to facilitate reference to and identification of the said Orders, and, accordingly, nothing contained in the said second column or the said fourth column shall affect the construction or limit or control the operation of this section and the third column of the said Schedule.

##### 2 Short title.

**2.**—This Act may be cited as the Imposition of Duties (Confirmation of Orders) Act, 1938.

## SCHEDULE. Ref. No. Number and Year in the Statutory Rules and Orders Short Title General Subject-matter 1 No. 315 of 1937 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 131) Order, 1937. Amendment of duty on woven piece goods. 2 No. 321 of 1937 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 132) Order, 1937. Variation of duty on certain kinds of bedding. 3 No. 322 of 1937 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 133) Order, 1937. Variation of duty on certain woven articles. 4 No. 327 of 1937 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 134) Order, 1937. Imposition of duty on heads for hoes. 5 No. 328 of 1937 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 135) Order, 1937. Imposition of duty on certain hollow-ware. 6 No. 329 of 1937 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 136) Order, 1937. Imposition of duty on certain woven tissues. 7 No. 20 of 1938 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 137) Order, 1938. Imposition of duty on component parts of sparking plugs. 8 No. 89 of 1938 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 138) Order, 1938. Imposition of duty on certain electrical apparatus. 9 No. 90 of 1938 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 139) Order, 1938. Imposition of duty on certain glazed clay articles. 10 No. 152 of 1938 Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 142) Order, 1938. Amendment of Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 128) Order, 1937 (Statutory Rules and Orders, No. 218 of 1937).
