---
title: "British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition)(Amendment) Act , 1986"
identifier: "IE-1986-act-22"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1986-06-25"
last_updated: "1986-06-25"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1986/act/22"
title_ga: "An tAcht um an British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Fáil)(Leasú), 1986"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1986/22"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition)(Amendment) Act , 1986

##### 1 Purchase of additional shares of British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited by Minister for Finance.

**1.**—Section 2 of the British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition) (Amendment) Act, 1971, is hereby amended by the substitution of “ninety-six million ordinary shares” for “fifty-eight million ordinary shares” (inserted by the British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition) (Amendment) Act, 1982), and the said section 2, as so amended, is set out in the Table to this section.

TABLE

The Minister for Finance may purchase, in addition to the ordinary shares of the Company purchased by him under the agreement approved of by section 2 of the Principal Act, not more than ninety-six million ordinary shares of the Company of £1 each.

##### 2 Superannuation of staff.

**2.**—Any alteration in the terms or conditions, in force at the commencement of this Act, governing the grant of pensions, gratuities, allowances or other payments on resignation, retirement or death, to or in respect of a member of the staff of the Company, including its chief officer, or any other arrangement to provide for benefits on resignation, retirement or death, additional to those aforesaid, shall not take effect unless the said alteration or arrangement has the approval of the Minister for Communications given with the consent of the Minister for the Public Service.

##### 3 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition) (Amendment) Act, 1986.

(2) The British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition) Acts, 1965 to 1982, and this Act may be cited together as the British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition) Acts, 1965 to 1986, and shall be construed together as one Act.
