---
title: "Courts of Justice Act , 1931"
identifier: "IE-1931-act-1"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1931-03-20"
last_updated: "1931-03-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1931/act/1"
title_ga: "An tAcht Cúirteanna Breithiúnais, 1931"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1931/1"
---
# Courts of Justice Act , 1931

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Courts of Justice Act, 1924 (No. 10 of 1924).

##### 2 Age of retirement of Judges of the Circuit Court.

**2.**—Section 40 (which relates to the age of retirement of Judges of the Circuit Court) of the Principal Act, shall be construed and have effect as if that section were amended by the insertion therein of the words “seventy-two years” in lieu of the figures and word “70 years” now contained therein.

##### 3 Re-appointment of certain retired Judges.

**3.**—(1) Where a person who was a Judge of the Circuit Court has, before the passing of this Act, vacated his office as such Judge on account of his having attained the age of seventy years and such person is at the passing of this Act under the age of seventy-two years, such person shall, notwithstanding anything in section 43 (which relates to qualification for appointment of Judges of the Circuit Court) of the Principal Act, be qualified for appointment as a Judge of the Circuit Court.

(2) Where a person qualified by virtue of the foregoing sub-section, for appointment as a Judge of the Circuit Court is appointed after the passing of this Act to be a Judge of the Circuit Court, the following provision shall have effect, that is to say, for the purpose of determining the right of such person to a pension under section 41 (which relates to salaries and pensions of Judges of the Circuit Court) of the Principal Act on his vacating his office as such Judge at any time after his said appointment and calculating the amount of such pension (if any), the period of service of such person as such Judge before he attained the age of seventy years, and his period of service as such Judge from the date of his said appointment shall be reckoned as one continuous period of service by such person as a Judge of the Circuit Court.

##### 4 Short title and citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Courts of Justice Act, 1931.

(2) The Courts of Justice Acts, 1924 to 1929, and this Act may be cited together as the Courts of Justice Acts, 1924 to 1931.
