---
title: "Social Welfare (Temporary Provisions) Act , 1955"
identifier: "IE-1955-act-27"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1955-12-06"
last_updated: "1955-12-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1955/act/27"
title_ga: "An tAcht Leasa Shóisialaigh (Forála Sealadacha), 1955"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1955/27"
---
# Social Welfare (Temporary Provisions) Act , 1955

##### 1 Increase—pensions under Old Age Pensions Acts, 1908 to 1955.

**1.**—Where a person is entitled to a pension under the Old Age Pensions Acts, 1908 to 1955, in respect of the week commencing on the 23rd day of December, 1955, any amount payable to him in respect of that pension for that week shall be increased by a sum equal to that amount.

##### 2 Increase—pensions under Widows' and Orphans' Pensions Acts, 1935 to 1955.

**2.**—Where a person is entitled to a widow's (non-contributory) pension under the Widows' and Orphans' Pensions Acts, 1935 to 1955 (being a pension consisting of or including a widow's (non-contributory) allowance) in respect of the week commencing on the 23rd day of December, 1955, any amount payable to her in respect of that pension for that week shall be increased by a sum equal to—

(*a*) in case that amount represents a widow's (non-contributory) allowance only—that amount, and

(*b*) in any other case—so much of that amount as represents a widow's (non-contributory) allowance.

##### 3 Increase—disability benefit under Social Welfare Act, 1952.

**3.**—Where—

(*a*) a person is entitled to disability benefit under the Social Welfare Act, 1952 (No. 11 of 1952), in respect of the week commencing on the 19th day of December, 1955, or any part of that week, and

(*b*) he was entitled to that benefit continuously during the fifty-one weeks immediately preceding that week,

any amount payable to him in respect of that benefit for that week shall be increased by a sum equal to—

(i) in case that amount does not include a part representing an increase for a qualified child or qualified children—that amount, and

(ii) in any other case—that amount less the part thereof representing an increase for a qualified child or qualified children.

##### 4 General restriction.

**4.**—Notwithstanding the foregoing sections of this Act—

(*a*) where, but for this paragraph, there would be an increase by virtue of any of those sections in the case of a person who, on the day on which he is entitled to the amount that would be increased, resides outside the State, that increase shall not be made, and

(*b*) where, but for this paragraph, there would be more than one increase by virtue of those sections in the case of any person, one only of those increases shall be made.

##### 5 Short title.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Social Welfare (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1955.
