---
title: "Clare Castle Pier Act , 1933"
identifier: "IE-1933-act-23"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1933-07-29"
last_updated: "1933-07-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1933/act/23"
title_ga: "Acht Piara Dhroichead an Chláir, 1933"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1933/23"
---
# Clare Castle Pier Act , 1933

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “the Act” means the Shannon Act, 1885;

the expression “the Order” means the Order made on the 16th day of December, 1886, by the Commissioners of Public Works in Ireland whereby the said Commissioners, in exercise of powers conferred on them by the Act, committed the maintenance of Clare Castle Pier in the county of Clare to certain persons named therein as trustees.

##### 2 Validation of acts by persons purporting to be trustees of Clare Castle Pier.

**2.**—Every act done or purported to be done before the passing of this Act by persons purporting to be the trustees in whom the power and duty of maintaining Clare Castle Pier was for the time being vested by virtue of the Order shall, notwithstanding that some or all of such persons were not lawfully appointed to be such trustees, have and be deemed always to have had the like validity and effect (if any) as such act would have had if all such persons had been lawfully appointed to be such trustees.

##### 3 Removal of the existing trustees of Clare Castle Pier.

**3.**—On the passing of this Act all persons who, immediately before such passing, were, by original nomination or subsequent appointment, the trustees in whom the power and duty of maintaining Clare Castle Pier was for the time being vested by virtue of the Order shall, without prejudice to the continued operation of the Order, cease to be such trustees.

##### 4 Appointment of new trustees of Clare Castle Pier.

**4.**—(1) The several persons named in the Schedule to this Act are hereby appointed to be trustees as on and from the passing of this Act for all the purposes of the Order as fully in all respects as if they had been lawfully appointed to be such trustees under the power in that behalf conferred by the Order.

(2) The person named in the Schedule to this Act as chairman is hereby appointed, as on and from the passing of this Act, to be the chairman of the trustees for the purposes of the Order as fully in all respects as if he had been lawfully appointed to be such chairman under the power in that behalf conferred by the Order.

##### 5 Short title.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Clare Castle Pier Act, 1933.

## SCHEDULE.

1. Daniel McInerney, Mill Road, Ennis, County Clare, Chairman.

2. Richard Jeffcott Hassett, Lifford, Ennis, County Clare.

3. Bernard Power, Clarecastle, County Clare.

4. James McInerney, Mill View, Ennis, County Clare.

5. Stephen Honan, 35 O'Connell Street, Ennis, County Clare.

6. Patrick McMahon, Clonroadmore, Ennis, County Clare.

7. Patrick Moylan, M.D., 3 Bindon Street, Ennis, County Clare.

8. Seán Hayes, The Glen, Killaloe, County Clare.

9. Thomas Vincent Honan, The Square, Ennis, County Clare.
