---
title: "Tourist Traffic Act , 1959"
identifier: "IE-1959-act-27"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1959-08-06"
last_updated: "1959-08-06"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1959/act/27"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Thrácht Cuartaíochta, 1959"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1959/27"
---
# Tourist Traffic Act , 1959

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act—

“the Board” means Bord Fáilte Éireann ;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Industry and Commerce.

(2) The Tourist Traffic Acts, 1939 to 1957, and this Act shall be construed as one.

##### 2 Non-repayable grants to the Board.

**2.**— (1) The Minister, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, may from time to time out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas—

(*a*) pay to the Board such sums, not exceeding in the aggregate £1,000,000, as the Board may require for the purpose of the giving of grants for the development of major tourist resorts, and

(*b*) pay to the Board such sums, not exceeding in the aggregate £500,000, as the Board may require for the purpose of the giving of grants for the development of holiday accommodation.

(2) Any sums paid to the Board under paragraph (*a*) of subsection (1) of this section shall not be used by the Board for any purpose other than that specified in that paragraph.

(3) Any sums paid to the Board under paragraph (*b*) of subsection (1) of this section shall not be used by the Board for any purpose other than that specified in that paragraph.

(4) The Minister shall not pay to the Board any sums under subsection (1) of this section after the expiration of ten years commencing on the date of the passing of this Act.

(5) Sums paid under this section to the Board shall not be repayable.

(6) Sums payable under this section to the Board are in addition to sums payable to the Board under section 7 of the Tourist Traffic Act, 1955.

##### 3 Short title and collective citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Tourist Traffic Act, 1959.

(2) The Tourist Traffic Acts, 1939 to 1957, and this Act may be cited together as the Tourist Traffic Acts, 1939 to 1959.
