---
title: "Electricity (Supply)(Amendment) Act , 1979"
identifier: "IE-1979-act-2"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1979-02-21"
last_updated: "1979-02-21"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1979/act/2"
title_ga: "An tAcht Leictreachais (Soláthar) (Leasú), 1979"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1979/2"
---
# Electricity (Supply)(Amendment) Act , 1979

##### 1 Amendment of section 2 of Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1954.

**1.**—Section 2 of the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1954 (as amended by the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1974), is hereby amended by the substitution for subsection (1) of the following subsection:

“(1) The total expenditure of the Board for general purposes, that is to say, for all capital purposes shall not exceed £1,200,000,000.”.

##### 2 Provision of certain services and training by Board.

**2.**—(1) The Board may, alone or with other persons, provide for reward, in or outside the State—

(*a*) consultancy services and advisory services, and

(*b*) training for persons,

and shall have all such powers as may be necessary for those purposes.

(2) The services referred to in subsection (1) of this section are in addition to consultancy services and advisory services provided by the Board for users of electricity, goods and apparatus, supplied by the Board, and the training referred to in that subsection is in addition to training provided by the Board for persons employed by it.

(3) Charges made by the Board under this section shall be such that the revenue derived by the Board from the provision of services and training under this section shall not be less than the expenditure incurred by the Board in relation to such provision.

(4) In this section “the Board” means the Electricity Supply Board.

##### 3 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1979.

(2) The Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1976, and this Act may be cited together as the Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1979.

(3) The Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1976, and this Act shall be construed together as one Act.
