---
title: "Fisheries (Amendment) Act , 1944"
identifier: "IE-1944-act-6"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1944-03-16"
last_updated: "1944-03-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1944/act/6"
title_ga: "An tAcht Iascaigh (Leasú) 1944"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1944/6"
---
# Fisheries (Amendment) Act , 1944

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act, the expression “the Principal Act” means the Fisheries Act, 1939 (No. 17 of 1939).

##### 2 Amendment of section 23 of the Principal Act.

**2.**—Sub-section (1) of section 23 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution of the words “salmon or other fish”, for the words “salmon, or trout”.

##### 3 Amendment of section 26 of the Principal Act.

**3.**—The Principal Act shall have effect as if the following section were substituted for section 26, that is to say—

“26.—(1) Any person who uses lime, spurge, or any narcotic, irritant or poisonous substance, or any explosive, for the purpose of injury to or destruction of fish in any river, lake or estuary, whether the same be a public or a private fishery, or in any part of the sea shall be guilty of an offence under this sub-section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding twenty-five pounds or, at the discretion of the Court, to imprisonment for any term not exceeding twelve months.

(2) Any person who—

(*a*) steeps in any river or lake any flax or hemp, or

(*b*) throws, empties, or causes to run or flow into any river or lake any lime or spurge,

shall be guilty of an offence under this sub-section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding ten pounds or, at the discretion of the Court, to imprisonment for any term not exceeding six months.

(3) Any person who throws, empties, or causes to run or flow into any river or lake any deleterious or poisonous matter (other than flax, hemp, lime or spurge) shall, unless such act is done under and in accordance with a licence granted by the Minister under sub-section (4) of this section, be guilty, of an offence under this sub-section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding ten pounds or, at the discretion of the Court, to imprisonment for any term not exceeding six months.

(4) The Minister, after consultation with the Minister for Industry and Commerce, may grant licences for the purposes of sub-section (3) of this section and may attach to any licence so granted such conditions as he thinks fit and may after the like consultation revoke any such licence.”

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Fisheries (Amendment) Act, 1944.

(2) The Fisheries Acts, 1842 to 1939 and this Act may be cited together as the Fisheries Acts, 1842 to 1944.
