---
title: "Broadcasting Authority (Amendment) Act , 1979"
identifier: "IE-1979-act-36"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1979-12-19"
last_updated: "1979-12-19"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1979/act/36"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Údarás Craolacháin (Leasú), 1979"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1979/36"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Broadcasting Authority (Amendment) Act , 1979

##### 1 Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Broadcasting Authority Act, 1960.

##### 2 Increase of limit on repayable advances.

**2.**—The following paragraph is hereby substituted for paragraph (*b*) (inserted by the Broadcasting Authority (Amendment) Act, 1976) of section 23 (2) of the Principal Act:

“(*b*) shall not exceed twenty-five million pounds in the aggregate,”.

##### 3 Local broadcasting.

**3.**—Subsection (1) of section 16 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by—

(*a*) the insertion after “sound broadcasting service” of “and may establish and maintain local broadcasting services”, and

(*b*) the substitution of “those purposes” for “that purpose”,

and the said subsection, as so amended, is set out in the Table to this section.

TABLE

(1) The Authority shall establish and maintain a national television and sound broadcasting service and may establish and maintain local broadcasting services and shall have all such powers as are necessary for or incidental to those purposes.

##### 4 Nomination of officer or servant of Authority for membership of or election to either House of Oireachtas.

**4.**—(1) Where a person who is an officer or servant of the Authority is nominated as a member of Seanad Éireann or for election to either House of the Oireachtas, he shall stand seconded from employment by the Authority and shall not be paid by, or be entitled to receive from, the Authority any remuneration or allowance—

(*a*) in case he is nominated as a member of Seanad Éireann, in respect of the period commencing on his acceptance of the nomination and ending when he ceases to be a member of that House,

(*b*) in case he is nominated for election to either House, in respect of the period commencing on his acceptance of the nomination and ending when he ceases to be a member of that House or fails to be elected or withdraws his candidature, as the case may be.

(2) A person who is for the time being entitled under the Standing Orders of either House of the Oireachtas to sit therein shall, while so entitled, be disqualified from becoming an officer or servant of the Authority.

##### 5 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Broadcasting Authority (Amendment) Act, 1979.

(2) The Broadcasting Authority Acts, 1960 to 1976, and this Act shall be construed together as one Act and may be cited together as the Broadcasting Authority Acts, 1960 to 1979.
