---
title: "Censorship of Films (Amendment) Act , 1930"
identifier: "IE-1930-act-13"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1930-06-04"
last_updated: "1930-06-04"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1930/act/13"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Scrúdóireacht Scannán (Leasú), 1930"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1930/13"
---
# Censorship of Films (Amendment) Act , 1930

##### 1 The Principal and Amending Acts.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “the Principal Act” means the Censorship of Films Act, 1923 (No. 23 of 1923); and

the expression “the Amending Act” means the Censorship of Films (Amendment) Act, 1925 (No. 21 of 1925).

##### 2 Extension of existing legislation to sounds accompanying pictures.

**2.**—(1) Where a picture within the meaning of the Principal Act is accompanied by vocal or other sounds produced by mechanical means in synchronisation with the optical effect constituting such picture, then for the purposes of the application and construction of the Principal Act and the Amending Act respectively to and in relation to such picture the following provisions shall have effect, that is to say:—

(*a*) the said vocal or other sounds shall be deemed to be included in and to form part of such picture;

(*b*) the mechanical means by which such sounds are produced shall be deemed to be part of the cinematograph or similar apparatus by means of which such picture is exhibited;

(*c*) the exhibition of such picture shall include the production of the said sounds; and

(*d*) references to a film and to a negative shall be construed as including respectively references to a record from which such sounds are produced and to a *matrix* from which such record is made.

##### 3 Excision of part of a picture.

**3.**—Regulations made under section 12 of the Principal Act may make such provision as the Minister for Justice shall think proper in relation to the separation, surrender and retention under paragraph (*a*) of sub-section (4) of section 7 of the Principal Act of parts of pictures which include sounds produced by mechanical means and may in lieu of such separation, surrender and retention authorise any specified procedure which in the opinion of the Minister for Justice is a satisfactory and efficient substitute for such separation, surrender and retention.

##### 4 Short title, construction and citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Censorship of Films (Amendment) Act, 1930.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Principal Act and the Amending Act, and those Acts and this Act may be cited together as the Censorship of Films Acts, 1923 to 1930.
