---
title: "Adaptation of Enactments Act , 1931"
identifier: "IE-1931-act-34"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1931-07-31"
last_updated: "1931-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1931/act/34"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Oiriúnú Achtanna, 1931"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1931/34"
---
# Adaptation of Enactments Act , 1931

##### 1 Definition.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “Irish statute” means an Act passed by a Parliament sitting in Ireland at any time before the coming into operation of the Union with Ireland Act, 1800.

##### 2 Adaptation of Irish Statutes.

**2.**—The Executive Council may from time to time by order make all such general or specific adaptations of or modifications in any Irish statute having the force of law in Saorstát Eireann as are, in the opinion of the Executive Council, necessary in order to enable such statute to have full force and effect in Saorstát Eireann.

##### 3 Adaptation of statutory orders, rules, and regulations.

**3.**—(1) The power conferred by this Act of making adaptations of or modifications in any Irish statute shall extend and apply to every order, rule, and regulation made under such statute and having the force of law in Saorstát Eireann.

(2) Every adaptation or modification made under this Act of or in any Irish statute shall apply to every order, rule, and regulation made under such statute and having the force of law in Saorstát Eireann.

##### 4 Orders to be laid before the Oireachtas.

**4.**—Every order made by the Executive Council under this Act shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made and if a resolution is passed by either House of the Oireachtas within the next subsequent twenty-one days on which such House has sat after such order is laid before it annulling such order, such order shall be annulled accordingly, but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under such order.

##### 5 Short title.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Adaptation of Enactments Act, 1931.
