---
title: "Local Elections (Dissolved Authorities) Act  1927"
identifier: "IE-1927-act-14"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1927-05-14"
last_updated: "1927-05-14"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1927/act/14"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Thoghacháin Áitiúla (Údaráis Scurtha), 1927"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1927/14"
---
# Local Elections (Dissolved Authorities) Act  1927

##### 1 Short title.

**1.**—This Act may be cited as the Local Elections (Dissolved Authorities) Act, 1927.

##### 2 Definitions.

**2.**—In this Act—

the expression “the Principal Act” means the Local Government Act, 1925 (No. 5 of 1925);

the expression “local authority” has the same meaning as in the Principal Act; and

the expression “statutory election” means an election required by law to be held to fill the places of councillors, commissioners, or members of a local authority retiring on the expiration of their term of office.

##### 3 Extension of time for new elections.

**3.**—(1) Where the period within which a new election of members of a local authority dissolved under section 12 of the Local Government (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1923 (No. 9 of 1923), or section 72 of the Principal Act is required by sub-section (5) of section 72 of the Principal Act to be held expires within one year before the date at which a statutory election of the members of such local authority would require to be held if such local authority had not been so dissolved, it shall be a sufficient compliance with the provisions of that sub-section if such new election of the members of such local authority is held on the date on which such statutory election would so require to be held.

(2) Nothing in this section shall repeal or otherwise affect the provisions of the Local Elections (Dissolved Authorities) Act, 1926 (No. 22 of 1926).
