---
title: "Institute for Advanced Studies (Amendment) Act , 1967"
identifier: "IE-1967-act-2"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1967-02-08"
last_updated: "1967-02-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1967/act/2"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Institiúid Ard-Léinn (Leasú), 1967"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1967/2"
---
# Institute for Advanced Studies (Amendment) Act , 1967

##### 1 Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Institute for Advanced Studies Act, 1940.

##### 2 Amendment of section 19 (3) of Principal Act.

**2.**—(1) The power conferred by subsection (3) of section 19 of the Principal Act shall include a power to add to a scheme under that section provisions, subject to such conditions and limitations as may be prescribed by the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister for Finance, for the granting of pensions to widows of Senior Professors or permanent whole-time members of the academic staff of the several Constituent Schools.

(2) Any such additional provisions shall be on a contributory basis and shall apply with respect to, and require contributions from, all such Professors and members, being male persons, whether married or unmarried:—

Provided that, in the case of any such person who holds office when the provisions come into operation—

(*a*) he may at any time within three months give notice in writing to the Council that he wishes to accept and contribute under the provisions;

(*b*) if, but only if, he gives that notice, the provisions shall apply with respect to, and require contributions from, him.

##### 3 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Institute for Advanced Studies (Amendment) Act, 1967.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act shall be construed together as one Act and may be cited together as the Institute for Advanced Studies Acts, 1940 and 1967.
