---
title: "Oireachtas (Allowances to Members and Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices (Amendment) Act , 1964"
identifier: "IE-1964-act-14"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1964-06-30"
last_updated: "1964-06-30"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1964/act/14"
title_ga: "An tAcht um an Oireachtas (Liúntais do Chomhaltaí) agus Oifigí Aireachta agus Parlaiminte (Leasú), 1964"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1964/14"
---
# Oireachtas (Allowances to Members and Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices (Amendment) Act , 1964

## PART I Preliminary

##### 1 Short title.

**1.**—This Act may be cited as the Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) and Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices (Amendment) Act, 1964.

## PART II Amendment of Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) Acts, 1938 to 1962

##### 2 Interpretation and collective citation.

**2.**—(1) In this Part of this Act—

“the Principal Act” means the Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) Act, 1938;

“the Act of 1960” means the Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) and Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices (Amendment) Act, 1960.

(2) The Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) Acts, 1938 to 1962, and this Part of this Act may be cited together as the Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) Acts, 1938 to 1964.

##### 3 Amendment of section 3 of Principal Act.

**3.**—(1) The following subsections are hereby substituted for subsections (1) and (2) of section 3 of the Principal Act as amended by section 4 of the Act of 1960:

“(1) The allowance to be paid to each member of Dáil Éireann under this Act shall be an allowance at the rate of £1,500 per annum payable monthly.

(2) The allowance to be paid to each member of Seanad Éireann under this Act shall be an allowance at the rate of £1,000 per annum payable monthly.”

(2) This section shall be deemed to have come into operation on the 1st day of June, 1964.

##### 4 Amendment of section 4 of Principal Act.

**4.**—(1) Subsection (1) of section 4 of the Principal Act is hereby amended as follows:

(*a*) the word “Dublin” shall, in the case of a member travelling by road, be construed as referring to Leinster House,

(*b*) subparagraph (i) of paragraph (*a*) shall not apply in the case of a member whose constituency is wholly within the ten mile area unless that constituency is outside the county borough of Dublin and his normal place of residence is outside the 10 mile area,

(*c*) the application of subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (*a*), of paragraph (*b*) and of paragraph (*c*) shall, in the case of a member whose normal place of residence is within the 10 mile area, be restricted to occasions of attendance by the member at a meeting of—

(i) Dáil Éireann or Seanad Éireann, or

(ii) a committee of Dáil Éireann or Seanad Éireann of which he is a member,

(*d*) subparagraphs (iii) and (iv) of paragraph (*a*) shall not apply in the case of a member whose constituency is wholly within the 10 mile area unless his normal place of residence is outside that area.

(2) In subsection (1) of this section “the 10 mile area” means the area all places in which are within 10 miles from Leinster House.

##### 5 Prescription of travelling facilities.

**5.**—(1) Section 2 of the Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) (Amendment) Act, 1947, is hereby repealed and, in lieu thereof, it is hereby enacted that travelling facilities for the purposes of the Principal Act shall be such facilities as may be prescribed by the Minister for Finance by regulations.

(2) Every regulation made under this section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made.

(3) This section shall come into operation on such day as the Minister for Finance appoints by order.

## PART III Amendment of Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices Acts, 1938 to 1960

##### 6 Interpretation and collective citation.

**6.**—(1) In this Part of this Act—

“the Principal Act” means the Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices Act, 1938;

“the Act of 1960” means the Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) and Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices (Amendment) Act, 1960.

(2) The Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices Acts, 1938 to 1960, and this Part of this Act may be cited together as the Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices Acts, 1938 to 1964.

##### 7 Amendment of section 3 of Principal Act.

**7.**—(1) The following subsections are hereby substituted for subsections (1) and (2) of section 3 of the Principal Act as amended by section 8 of the Act of 1960:

“(1) There shall be paid to the Taoiseach an annual sum by way of salary not exceeding the sum of £3,300 and to each other member of the Government an annual sum by way of salary not exceeding the sum of £2,200.

(2) There shall be paid an annual sum by way of salary, not exceeding the sum of £1,320, to every Parliamentary Secretary appointed under section 7 of the Ministers and Secretaries Act, 1924, who shall not, by the terms of his appointment, be declared to be appointed without salary.”

(2) This section and the next four sections shall be deemed to have come into operation on the 1st day of June, 1964.

##### 8 Amendment of section 4 of Principal Act.

**8.**—The following section is hereby substituted for section 4 of the Principal Act as amended by section 9 of the Act of 1960:

“4. There shall be paid to the Attorney General an annual sum by way of salary not exceeding the sum of £3,850.”

##### 9 Amendment of section 5 of Principal Act.

**9.**—The following subsection is hereby substituted for subsection (1) of section 5 of the Principal Act as amended by section 10 of the Act of 1960:

“(1) There shall be paid to the Chairman of Dáil Éireann an annual sum by way of salary not exceeding the sum of £2,200, and to the Deputy Chairman of Dáil Éireann an annual sum by way of salary not exceeding the sum of £935.”

##### 10 Amendment of section 6 of Principal Act.

**10.**—The following subsection is hereby substituted for subsection (1) of section 6 of the Principal Act as amended by section 11 of the Act of 1960:

“(1) There shall be paid to the Chairman of Seanad Éireann an annual sum by way of salary not exceeding the sum of £1,375, and to the Deputy Chairman of Seanad Éireann an annual sum by way of salary not exceeding the sum of £550.”

##### 11 Amendment of section 10 of Principal Act.

**11.**—The following subsections are hereby substituted for subsections (1) to (3) of section 10 of the Principal Act as amended by section 13 of the Act of 1960:

“(1) Where there is one qualified Party and not more, there shall be paid to the Leader of that Party an annual sum by way of allowance for expenses of £5,040.

(2) Where there are two qualified Parties and not more—

(*a*) there shall be paid to the Leader of that one of the qualified Parties which is of the greater numerical strength in Dáil Éireann an annual sum by way of allowance for expenses of £3,360, and

(*b*) there shall be paid to the Leader of the other qualified Party an annual sum by way of allowance for expenses of £1,680.

(3) Where there are three or more qualified Parties—

(*a*) there shall be paid to the Leader of that one of the qualified Parties which is of the greatest numerical strength in Dáil Éireann an annual sum by way of allowance for expenses of £2,520,

(*b*) there shall be paid to each of the Leaders of the other qualified Parties an annual sum by way of allowance for expenses of £2,520 divided by the number of the other qualified Parties.”
