---
title: "Agriculture (Amendment) Act , 1980"
identifier: "IE-1980-act-12"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1980-06-11"
last_updated: "1980-06-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1980/act/12"
title_ga: "An tAcht Talmhaíochta (Leasú), 1980"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1980/12"
---
# Agriculture (Amendment) Act , 1980

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Agriculture Act, 1931, as amended by subsequent enactments.

##### 2 Appointment of committees of agriculture.

**2.**—(1) Each council of a county shall, at the next meeting of the council held after a date to be determined by the Minister for Agriculture for the purpose of this section, appoint a committee of agriculture for the county in accordance with the provisions of the Second Schedule to the Principal Act.

(2) The term of office of every member of a committee of agriculture so appointed shall commence at the termination of the meeting at which he is appointed and every such member shall, unless he sooner dies, resigns or becomes disqualified, hold office until the next annual meeting of the council at which the council is required by the Principal Act to appoint (other than to fill a casual vacancy) members of such committee.

(3) The term of office of every person who is a member of a committee of agriculture for a county immediately before the commencement of the meeting referred to in subsection (1) of the council of that county, shall end upon such commencement.

##### 3 Consequential provision.

**3.**—The meeting referred to in section 2 (1) of each council of a county shall—

(*a*) for the purposes of the Principal Act, be deemed to be an annual meeting of such council held in an election year and

(*b*) for the purposes of section 26 (2) of the Agriculture (An Chomhairle Oiliúna Talmhaíochta) Act, 1979, be deemed to be the annual meeting referred to therein.

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Agriculture (Amendment) Act, 1980.

(2) The Agriculture Acts, 1931 to 1974, and this Act may be cited together as the Agriculture Acts, 1931 to 1980.
