---
title: "Tourist Traffic Act , 1961"
identifier: "IE-1961-act-37"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1961-08-16"
last_updated: "1961-08-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1961/act/37"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Thrácht Cuartaíochta, 1961"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1961/37"
---
# Tourist Traffic Act , 1961

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act—

“the Act of 1952” means the Tourist Traffic Act, 1952;

“the Board” means Bord Fáilte Éireann.

(2) The Tourist Traffic Acts, 1939 to 1959, and this Act shall be construed as one.

##### 2 Non-repayable grants.

**2.**—(1) The Minister for Industry and Commerce, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, may, from time to time, pay to the Board out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas such sums, not exceeding in the aggregate five million pounds, as the Board shall require.

(2) Sums paid under this section shall not be repayable.

(3) Any moneys provided by the Oireachtas or paid to the Board under section 7 of the Tourist Traffic Act, 1955, in the year beginning on the 1st day of April, 1961, shall be deemed to have been provided or paid, as the case may be, under this section.

(4) Sums payable under this section to the Board are in addition to sums payable to the Board under section 2 of the Tourist Traffic Act, 1959.

##### 3 Increase of aggregate amount of guarantees under Part III of Act of 1952.

**3.**—Section 18 of the Act of 1952 is hereby amended by the substitution of “five million pounds” for “three million pounds” in subsection (1).

##### 4 Extension of time limit on giving of guarantees under Part III of Act of 1952.

**4.**—Section 21 of the Act of 1952 is hereby amended by the substitution of “fifteen years from the passing of this Act” for “ten years from the passing of this Act” (inserted by the Tourist Traffic Act, 1957).

##### 5 Repeals.

**5.**—Subsection (3) of section 18 of the Act of 1952, section 7 of the Tourist Traffic Act, 1955, and subsection (2) of section 3 of the Tourist Traffic Act, 1957, are hereby repealed.

##### 6 Short title and collective citation.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Tourist Traffic Act, 1961.

(2) The Tourist Traffic Acts, 1939 to 1959, and this Act may be cited together as the Tourist Traffic Acts, 1939 to 1961.
