---
title: "Electoral (University Constituencies) Act , 1936"
identifier: "IE-1936-act-22"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1936-06-29"
last_updated: "1936-06-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1936/act/22"
title_ga: "An tAcht Toghacháin (Dáilcheanntair Phríomh-Scoile), 1936"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1936/22"
---
# Electoral (University Constituencies) Act , 1936

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—(1) In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Electoral Act, 1923 (No. 12 of 1923).

(2) Every word and expression to which a particular meaning is given by the Principal Act for the purposes of that Act has in this Act the meaning so given, save that the word “prescribed” means prescribed by order made by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health.

##### 2 Supplemental lists of university electors.

**2.**—(1) As soon as may be after the passing of this Act, every registration officer shall extract from the register of electors in force for each university constituency the name and other relevant particulars of every person who is registered as an elector in such register and whose place of residence as stated in such register is situate in the registration area of such registration officer and shall enter the name and other particulars so extracted in a separate list, in this Act referred to as a supplemental list.

(2) Every supplemental list shall—

(*a*) be in the prescribed form, and

(*b*) be framed in separate parts for each registration unit in the registration area, and

(*c*) be printed, and

(*d*) be published and put on sale in accordance with the provisions (other than provisions relating to time) contained in the First Schedule to the Principal Act in relation to the publication and sale of the register.

(3) Section 12 of the Principal Act shall apply to all expenses incurred by a registration officer in the preparation, printing, publishing, and putting on sale of a supplemental list as if those expenses were registration expenses within the meaning of that section.

##### 3 Elections prior to 1st June, 1937.

**3.**—(1) In the event of a dissolution of the Oireachtas taking place after the passing of this Act in such circumstances that the polling day at the general election consequent on such dissolution is prior to the 1st day of June, 1937, the following provisions shall have effect in respect of every supplemental list prepared in pursuance of this Act, that is to say:—

(*a*) in the case of every such supplemental list which relates to a registration area situate wholly within one constituency, such supplemental list shall, immediately upon the happening of such dissolution or, if more than one such dissolution takes place, immediately upon the happening of the first of such dissolutions, come into force in such constituency and become and be, for all purposes, part of the register of electors for such constituency, and

(*b*) in the case of every such supplemental list which relates to a registration area situate partly in each of two or more constituencies, so much of such supplemental list as relates to the portion of such registration area situate in any one of such constituencies shall, immediately upon the happening of such dissolution or, if more than one such dissolution takes place, immediately upon the happening of the first of such dissolutions, come into force in such constituency and become and be, for all purposes, part of the register of electors for such constituency.

(2) Every person whose name is entered in a supplemental list shall be entitled to vote as a Dáil elector in the constituency in which such supplemental list or the portion thereof containing his name is in force as part of the register of electors at every general election in which the polling day is prior to the 1st day of June, 1937, and at every bye-election in such constituency at which the polling day is subsequent to the coming into force of such supplementallist or such portion thereof as part of the register of electors for such constituency and is prior to the 1st day of June, 1937.

##### 4 Elections subsequent to 1st June, 1937.

**4.**—(1) At every revision of an electors list under Part I of the Principal Act which takes place after the passing of this Act and before the next following dissolution of the Oireachtas, the name of every person who is registered in a register of electors then in force in a university constituency and would, if he was not so registered, be entitled to have his name entered in such electors list and in the register of electors prepared therefrom shall be entered or retained (as the case may require) in such electors list and be entered in the register of electors prepared therefrom but shall be distinguished in the said list and the said register by the prescribed mark.

(2) Every person whose name is entered in a register of electors and distinguished therein by the prescribed mark mentioned in the next preceding sub-section of this section shall be entitled to vote, in the constituency to which such register relates, at every general election at which the polling day occurs while such register is in force, and also at every bye-election which takes place in such constituency after the dissolution of the Oireachtas next after the passing of this Act and at which the polling day occurs while such register is in force, but shall not be entitled to vote in such constituency at any bye-election in such constituency which takes place before the said dissolution of the Oireachtas and at which the polling day occurs while such register is in force.

##### 5 Repeal of certain provisions of the Principal Act.

**5.**—The several provisions of the Principal Act which are mentioned in the first column of the Schedule to this Act are hereby repealed to the extent mentioned in the second column of the said Schedule as on and from the happening of the first dissolution of the Oireachtas after the passing of this Act.

##### 6 Short title and citation.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Electoral (University Constituencies) Act, 1936.

(2) The Electoral Acts, 1923 to 1935, and this Act may be cited together as the Electoral Acts, 1923 to 1936.

## SCHEDULE.

Provisions of Principal Act repealed as on and from the first dissolution of the Oireachtas after the passing of this Act.

| Section. | Extent of Repeal. |
| --- | --- |
| 1 | Paragraph (*c*) of sub-section (2). |
| 8 | All references to university constituencies. |
| 9 | In sub-section (1) the words “and each University constituency”: sub-section (3). |
| 10 | Sub-section (3). |
| 11 | Sub-section (3). |
| 12 | Sub-section (8). |
| 15 | The whole section. |
| 16 | In the provisoes to sub-section (1), all references to university constituencies. |
| 21 | Sub-section (2). |
| 23 | In sub-section (1) the words “other than a University constituency”: sub-section (2). |
| 41 | Paragraph (*c*) of sub-section (2). |
| 48 | In sub-section (1) the words “(including University constituencies).” |
| 50 | All references to university constituencies or to Part III of the Eighth Schedule. |
| Second Schedule. | The whole Schedule. |
| Fifth Schedule. | In Part III, all references to university constituencies. |
| Eighth Schedule. | Part III. |
