---
title: "Electricity (Supply)(Amendment) Act , 1931"
identifier: "IE-1931-act-32"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1931-07-31"
last_updated: "1931-07-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1931/act/32"
title_ga: "An tAcht Leictreachais (Soláthar)(Leasú), 1931"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1931/32"
---
# Electricity (Supply)(Amendment) Act , 1931

##### 1 Definition.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1927 (No. 27 of 1927).

##### 2 Construction of the Principal Act and this Act.

**2.**—The Principal Act and this Act shall be read and construed as one Act, and accordingly expressions and words used in this Act which were also used in the Principal Act have the same meanings in this Act as they respectively have in the Principal Act.

##### 3 Additional advances to the Board.

**3.**—(1) In addition to the sums which the Minister for Finance is required by section 12 of the Principal Act to advance to the Board, the said Minister may (subject to the limitation imposed by this section) advance out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof to the Board, as and when requested so to do by the Board, all such sums as the Minister for Industry and Commerce shall from time to time certify to be reasonably and properly required by the Board for any purpose arising in the performance of its functions under the Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1930.

(2) The total amount of the sums advanced to the Board under this section shall not exceed the sum of two million pounds.

(3) Sub-sections (4) and (5) of section 12 of the Principal Act shall apply in relation to advances made to the Board under this section as if such advances were made under the said section 12.

(4) All advances made to the Board under this section shall, for the purposes of sections 13, 14, and 16 of the Principal Act as amended by any subsequent enactment, be deemed to be made under the Principal Act, and those sections as so amended shall apply in respect of such advances accordingly.

##### 4 Payment to a former member of the Board.

**4.**—As soon as may be after the passing of this Act, the Board shall pay to Thomas A. MacLaughlin, lately a member of the Board, the sum of two thousand pounds.

##### 5 Short title and citation.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1931.

(2) The Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1930, and this Act may be cited together as the Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1931.
