---
title: "Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act , 1965"
identifier: "IE-1965-act-14"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1965-07-13"
last_updated: "1965-07-13"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1965/act/14"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Chuideachta Forbartha Aerfort Neamhchustam na Sionna Teoranta (Leasú), 1965"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1965/14"
---
# Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act , 1965

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act—

“the Act of 1963” means the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act, 1963;

“the Company” means the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited;

“the Principal Act” means the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited Act, 1959.

(2) The Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited Acts, 1959 to 1963, and this Act shall be construed as one.

##### 2 Amendment of section 2 of the Principal Act.

**2.**—So much of section 2 of the Principal Act, as amended by section 2 of the Act of 1963, as provides that the aggregate of the amounts which the Minister for Finance may subscribe under that section in taking up shares of the Company shall not exceed four million pounds is hereby repealed, and in lieu thereof, it is hereby enacted that the aggregate of the amounts so subscribed shall not exceed six million pounds.

##### 3 Amendment of section 8 of the Principal Act.

**3.**—Section 3 of the Act of 1963 is hereby repealed, and in lieu thereof, it is hereby enacted that the aggregate amount of grants to be made to the Company under section 8 of the Principal Act shall not exceed three million pounds.

##### 4 Advances to the Company by Minister for Finance.

**4.**—Subsection (2) of section 4 of the Act of 1963 is hereby repealed, and in lieu thereof, it is hereby enacted that the aggregate amount of advances under subsection (1) of that section and advances under section 4 of the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act, 1961, shall not exceed three million pounds.

##### 5 Short title and collective citation.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited (Amendment) Act, 1965.

(2) The Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited Acts, 1959 to 1963, and this Act may be cited together as the Shannon Free Airport Development Company Limited Acts, 1959 to 1965.
