---
title: "Comptroller and Auditor General (Amendment) Act , 1953"
identifier: "IE-1953-act-24"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1953-08-12"
last_updated: "1953-08-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1953/act/24"
title_ga: "Acht an Ard-Reachtaire Cuntas agus Ciste (Leasú), 1953"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1953/24"
---
# Comptroller and Auditor General (Amendment) Act , 1953

##### 1 Increase of salary of Comptroller and Auditor General.

**1.**—The salary payable to the Comptroller and Auditor General under subsection (1) of section 2 of the Comptroller and Auditor-General Act, 1923 (No. 1 of 1923), as amended by section 2 of the Comptroller and Auditor General (Amendment) Act, 1947 (No. 19 of 1947), shall be increased to two thousand four hundred pounds per annum.

##### 2 Superannuation award to person who was Comptroller and Auditor General on 1st April, 1953.

**2.**—Where, in the case of the person who was Comptroller and Auditor General on the 1st day of April, 1953, an award under the Superannuation Acts, 1834 to 1947, is granted by virtue of subsection (1) of section 2 of the Comptroller and Auditor General (Amendment) Act, 1944 (No. 19 of 1944), any computation for the purposes of the award shall, notwithstanding anything contained in those Acts, be upon the salary appointed by section 1 of this Act.

##### 3 Short title, commencement and collective citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Comptroller and Auditor General (Amendment) Act, 1953.

(2) This Act shall be deemed to have come into operation on, and shall have effect as on and from, the 1st day of April, 1953.

(3) The Comptroller and Auditor General Acts, 1923 to 1947, and this Act may be cited together as the Comptroller and Auditor General Acts, 1923 to 1953.
