---
title: "Landlord and Tenant (Ground Rents)(Amendment) Act  1984"
identifier: "IE-1984-act-15"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1984-07-10"
last_updated: "1984-07-10"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1984/act/15"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Thiarnaí Talún agus Tionóntaí(Bunchíosanna)(Leasú), 1984"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1984/15"
---
# Landlord and Tenant (Ground Rents)(Amendment) Act  1984

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“Act (No. 2) of 1978” means the Landlord and Tenant (Ground Rents) (No. 2) Act, 1978;

“the Act of 1983” means the Landlord and Tenant (Ground Rents) (Amendment) Act, 1983.

##### 2 Duration of Part III of Act (No. 2) of 1978.

**2.**—Section 18 of Act (No. 2) of 1978, as amended by section 1 of the Act of 1983, is hereby amended by the substitution of “nine years” for “six years”.

##### 3 Amendment of section 23 of Act (No. 2) of 1978.

**3.**—(1) In relation to any application under Part III of Act (No. 2) of 1978 made on or after the 1st day of August, 1984, section 23 (1) of that Act, as amended by section 2 of the Act of 1983, shall have effect as if there were substituted “£26” for “£15” in paragraph (*a*) and “£63” for “£36” in paragraph (*b*).

(2) On and after the 1st day of August, 1984—

(*a*) in section 23 (2) of Act (No. 2) of 1978, the words “other than the fees mentioned in subsection (1)”, and

(*b*) in section 23 (3) of that Act, the words “With the exception of fees fixed in respect of the cases mentioned in subsection (1)”

shall cease to have effect.

##### 4 Amendment of section 26 of Act (No. 2) of 1978.

**4.**—(1) In the case of an application made on or after the 1st day of August, 1984, for a transfer order pursuant to section 26 of Act (No. 2) of 1978, the fee to be taken by a housing authority for the issue of the order shall, subject to *subsection (2)*, be £20 and section 26 (8) of that Act shall cease to have effect in any such case.

(2) The Minister for the Environment may, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, by order fix the fee to be taken from time to time for the issue of a transfer order pursuant to section 26 of Act (No. 2) of 1978.

##### 5 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Landlord and Tenant (Ground Rents) (Amendment) Act, 1984.

(2) The collective citation, the Landlord and Tenant Acts, 1967 to 1984, shall include this Act and those Acts and this Act shall be construed together as one Act.
