---
title: "Tariff Commission (Amendment) Act , 1930"
identifier: "IE-1930-act-31"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1930-12-23"
last_updated: "1930-12-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1930/act/31"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Choimisúin na nDleacht (Leasú), 1930"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1930/31"
---
# Tariff Commission (Amendment) Act , 1930

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act,

the expression “the Principal Act” means the Tariff Commission Act, 1926 (No. 40 of 1926);

the expression “the Commission” means the Tariff Commission.

##### 2 Reference of questions to the Commission by the Executive Council.

**2.**—The Executive Council may, if and whenever they think fit so to do, refer to the Commission under section 2 of the Principal Act any matter or question relating to the imposition, modification, abolition, or renewal of a customs duty and the Commission shall consider and report on every matter or question so referred to them as if it were an application referred to them by the Minister for Finance under the Principal Act.

##### 3 Reports of the Commission.

**3.**—Notwithstanding anything contained in the Principal Act, all reports made by the Commission whether on an application referred to them by the Minister for Finance under the Principal Act or on a matter or question referred to them by the Executive Council under this Act shall be made to the Executive Council.

##### 4 Completion of certain pending matters.

**4.**—(1) The members of the Commission who have lately resigned their membership thereof shall, notwithstanding such resignation, make their report in accordance with the Principal Act on the several applications in reference to which they heard evidence but made no report before their said resignation.

(2) A report made under this section by the said members of the Commission shall, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, be made to the Minister for Finance and shall for all purposes be a report of the Commission made under the Principal Act.

(3) This section shall be deemed to have come into operation on and shall have effect as on and from the fifteenth day of November, 1930, being the day on which the said members of the Commission resigned their membership.

##### 5 Short title, construction and citation.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Tariff Commission (Amendment) Act, 1930, and shall be construed as one with the Principal Act, and the Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Tariff Commission Acts, 1926 and 1930.
