---
title: "Intoxicating Liquor Act , 1924"
identifier: "IE-1924-act-28"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1924-07-23"
last_updated: "1924-07-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1924/act/28"
title_ga: "An tAcht Deocha Meisciúla, 1924"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1924/28"
---
# Intoxicating Liquor Act , 1924

## Part I. Prohibited Hours.

##### 1 Extension of prohibited hours.

**1.**—(1) It shall not be lawful for any person to sell or expose for sale any intoxicating liquor or to open any premises for the sale of intoxicating liquors on any day not being a Sunday, Good Friday, or Christmas Day before the hour of nine o'clock in the morning or after the hour of half-past nine o'clock in the evening. This sub-section shall not apply to any licensed premises forming part of a theatre, music hall, or other place of public amusement.

(2) It shall not be lawful for any person to sell or expose for sale any intoxicating liquor in any theatre, music hall, or other place of public amusement at any time being more than thirty minutes before the commencement of a performance or entertainment or at any time being more than thirty minutes after the end of a performance or entertainment or at any time after ten o'clock in the night.

##### 2 District Justice may order immediate closing of licensed premises.

**2.**—Whenever a District Justice is satisfied on the written application of a Superintendent or an Inspector of the Gárda Síochána that in the interests of the preservation of public peace and order it is expendient that the sale of intoxicating liquor in any town or village should immediately cease, the District Justice may order the immediate closing for the remainder of that day, or for such shorter period as he may deem adequate, of all premises licensed for the sale of intoxicating liquor in that town or village.

##### 3 Penalties for opening during prohibited hours.

**3.**—All penalties for the time being in force under this or any other Act for selling or exposing for sale or purchasing or opening or keeping open any premises for the sale of intoxicating liquors or being present in or upon any such premises during any hours or times at which the sale of intoxicating liquors is prohibited by any Act now in force, and all statutory provisions relating to such penalties are hereby extended and made applicable to the times during which the sale of intoxicating liquors is prohibited by this Part of this Act or by any order made under this Part of this Act.

##### 4 Exemptions from application of Act.

**4.**—Nothing in this Part of this Act shall be construed to apply to sales of intoxicating liquor to lodgers, or to the sale of intoxicating liquor in packet boats, or in canteens in pursuance of any Act regulating the same, or in a registered club as defined by the Registration of Clubs (Ireland) Act, 1904, or shall preclude the sale at any time at a railway station of intoxicating liquors on arrival or departure of trains, or the sale of intoxicating liquor to *bona-fide* travellers within the meaning of the Licensing (Ireland) Acts, 1833 to 1905.

## Part II. Miscellaneous.

##### 5 Prohibited hours in clubs.

**5.**—(1) In order that any club may be eligible to be registered under the Registration of Clubs (Ireland) Act, 1904, the rules of the club shall (in addition to the matters mentioned in Section 4 of the said Act) provide that no excisable liquor shall be supplied to any person (other than members of the club lodging in the club premises) before the hour of nine o'clock in the morning or after the hour of half-past ten o'clock in the evening on any day.

(2) This section shall not apply to any club which at the passing of this Act is registered under the Registration of Clubs (Ireland) Act, 1904, until the expiration of the certificate of registration of such club which shall be in force at the expiration of two months from the passing of this Act.

##### 6 Non-renewal not invalidate licences in certain cases.

**6.**—If and whenever after the 1st day of January, 1919—

(*a*) it was impossible to renew a licence for the sale of any class or classes of intoxicating liquor, whether on or off the premises, because of the Annual Licensing Petty Sessions not being holden in the County or County Borough in which the licensed premises were situate, or because of there being no Justice of the Peace or an insufficient number of Justices of the Peace in such County or County Borough to give the certificates requisite for such renewal, or because the holder of such licence objected on principle to apply to such Petty Sessions for renewal of his licence or to such Justices for such certificates, and

(*b*) all excise duties payable for or in respect of such licence since the last renewal thereof have been or shall within one month after the passing of this Act be duly paid,

such licence shall for all purposes be deemed to be and to have been continuously since the last renewal thereof as valid and effectual as if the same had been regularly renewed in each year since the last renewal thereof and shall continue to be of such validity and effect up to and including the 10th day of October, 1923, and every transfer of such licence made or to be made after the expiration of one year from the last renewal thereof and before the 11th day of October, 1923, shall be, and be deemed always to have been, as valid and effectual as if such licence had been regularly renewed every year up to and including the year in which such transfer was or shall be made.

##### 7 Short title.

**7.**—This Act may be cited as the Intoxicating Liquor Act, 1924.
