---
title: "International Development Association Act , 1960"
identifier: "IE-1960-act-35"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1960-11-22"
last_updated: "1960-11-22"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1960/act/35"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Chomhlachas Forbartha Idirnáisiúnta, 1960"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1960/35"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# International Development Association Act , 1960

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Agreement” means the agreement, for the establishment and operation of an international body to be called the International Development Association, of which the text of the Articles is set out in the Schedule to this Act;

“the Association” means the International Development Association established under the Agreement.

##### 2 Approval of terms of the Agreement.

**2.**—The terms of the Agreement are hereby approved.

##### 3 Financial and other provisions.

**3.**—(1) The subsequent subsections of this section shall come into operation on the day on which the Agreement is signed on behalf of the Government.

(2) The following payments, as and when they become appropriate to be made on behalf of the Government, shall be made out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof:

(*a*) payments under subsections (*a*) to (*d*) of Section 2 of Article II of the Agreement,

(*b*) payments under Section 1 of Article III of the Agreement,

(*c*) payments under paragraph (*a*) of Section 2 of Article IV of the Agreement,

(*d*) payments under subparagraph (i) of paragraph (*c*) of Section 4 of Article VII of the Agreement.

(3) The Minister for Finance may create and issue to the Association, in such form as he thinks fit, such non-interest-bearing and non-negotiable notes or other obligations as are provided for in subsection (*e*) of Section 2 of Article II of the Agreement, and any payments in respect of any such notes or obligations so created and issued shall be made out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof.

(4) The Minister for Finance may borrow from any person, and the Bank of Ireland may advance to him, any sum or sums required for payments under this section and, for the purpose of such borrowing, he may create and issue any securities bearing such rate of interest and subject to such conditions as to repayment, redemption or otherwise as he thinks fit.

(5) The principal and interest of any securities issued under subsection (4) of this section and the expenses incurred in connection with their issue shall be charged on the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof.

(6) Any moneys received by the Government from the Association or raised by securities under subsection (4) of this section shall be placed to the credit of the account of the Exchequer and shall form part of the Central Fund and be available in any manner in which that Fund is available.

(7) The Central Bank of Ireland shall act as a depository for the holdings of currency of the State and other assets of the Association and may advance to the Minister for Finance any sum or sums required for payments under this section.

(8) The provisions of Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of Article VIII of the Agreement shall have the force of law in the State, subject to the proviso that nothing in the said Section 9 shall be construed—

(i) as entitling the Association to import goods, free of customs duty, without any restriction on their subsequent sale in the country to which they were imported,

(ii) as conferring on the Association any exemption from duties or taxes which form part of the price of goods sold, or

(iii) as conferring on the Association any exemption from duties or taxes which are in fact no more than charges for services rendered.

##### 4 Short title.

**4.**—This Act may be cited as the International Development Association Act, 1960.

## SCHEDULE. Articles of Agreement of the International Development Association.

The Governments on whose behalf this Agreement is signed,

*Considering*

That mutual cooperation for constructive economic purposes, healthy development of the world economy and balanced growth of international trade foster international relationships conducive to the maintenance of peace and world prosperity;

That an acceleration of economic development which will promote higher standards of living and economic and social progress in the less-developed countries is desirable not only in the interests of those countries but also in the interests of the international community as a whole;

That achievement of these objectives would be facilitated by an increase in the international flow of capital, public and private, to assist in the development of the resources of the less-developed countries,

do hereby agree as follows:

The International Development Association (hereinafter called “the Association”) is established and shall operate in accordance with the following provisions:

**Purposes.**

The purposes of the Association are to promote economic development, increase productivity and thus raise standards of living in the less-developed areas of the world included within the Association's membership, in particular by providing finance to meet their important developmental requirements on terms which are more flexible and bear less heavily on the balance of payments than those of conventional loans, thereby furthering the developmental objectives of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called “the Bank”) and supplementing its activities.

The Association shall be guided in all its decisions by the provisions of this Article.

**Membership; Initial Subscriptions.**

Section 1. *Membership*.

(*a*) The original members of the Association shall be those members of the Bank listed in Schedule A hereto which, on or before the date specified in Article XI, Section 2 (*c*), accept membership in the Association.

(*b*) Membership shall be open to other members of the Bank at such times and in accordance with such terms as the Association may determine.

Section 2. *Initial Subscriptions*.

(*a*) Upon accepting membership, each member shall subscribe funds in the amount assigned to it. Such subscriptions are herein referred to as initial subscriptions.

(*b*) The initial subscription assigned to each original member shall be in the amount set forth opposite its name in Schedule A, expressed in terms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960.

(*c*) Ten per cent. of the initial subscription of each original member shall be payable in gold or freely convertible currency as follows: fifty per cent. within thirty days after the date on which the Association shall begin operations pursuant to Article XI, Section 4, or on the date on which the original member becomes a member, whichever shall be later; twelve and one-half per cent. one year after the beginning of operations of the Association; and twelve and one-half per cent. each year thereafter at annual intervals until the ten per cent. portion of the initial subscription shall have been paid in full.

(*d*) The remaining ninety per cent. of the initial subscription of each original member shall be payable in gold or freely convertible currency in the case of members listed in Part I of Schedule A, and in the currency of the subscribing member in the case of members listed in Part II of Schedule A. This ninety per cent. portion of initial subscriptions of original members shall be payable in five equal annual instalments as follows: the first such instalment within thirty days after the date on which the Association shall begin operations pursuant to Article XI, Section 4, or on the date on which the original member becomes a member, whichever shall be later; the second instalment one year after the beginning of operations of the Association, and succeeding instalments each year thereafter at annual intervals until the ninety per cent. portion of the initial subscription shall have been paid in full.

(*e*) The Association shall accept from any member, in place of any part of the member's currency paid in or payable by the member under the preceding subsection (*d*) or under Section 2 of Article IV and not needed by the Association in its operations, notes or similar obligations issued by the government of the member or the depository designated by such member, which shall be non-negotiable, non-interest-bearing and payable at their par value on demand to the account of the Association in the designated depository.

(*f*) For the purposes of this Agreement the Association shall regard as “freely convertible currency”:

(i) currency of a member which the Association determines, after consultation with the International Monetary Fund, is adequately convertible into the currencies of other members for the purposes of the Association's operations; or

(ii) currency of a member which such member agrees, on terms satisfactory to the Association, to exchange for the currencies of other members for the purposes of the Association's operations.

(*g*) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each member listed in Part I of Schedule A shall maintain, in respect of its currency paid in by it as freely convertible currency pursuant to subsection (*d*) of this Section, the same convertibility as existed at the time of payment.

(*h*) The conditions on which the initial subscriptions of members other than original members may be made, and the amounts and the terms of payment thereof, shall be determined by the Association pursuant to Section 1 (*b*) of this Article.

Section 3. *Limitation on Liability*.

No member shall be liable, by reason of its membership, for obligations of the Association.

**Additions to Resources.**

Section 1. *Additional Subscriptions*.

(*a*) The Association shall at such time as it deems appropriate in the light of the schedule for completion of payments on initial subscriptions of original members, and at intervals of approximately five years thereafter, review the adequacy of its resources and, if it deems desirable, shall authorise a general increase in subscriptions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, general or individual increases in subscriptions may be authorised at any time, provided that an individual increase shall be considered only at the request of the member involved. Subscriptions pursuant to this Section are herein referred to as additional subscriptions.

(*b*) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (*c*) below, when additional subscriptions are authorised, the amounts authorised for subscription and the terms and conditions relating thereto shall be as determined by the Association.

(*c*) When any additional subscription is authorised, each member shall be given an opportunity to subscribe, under such conditions as shall be reasonably determined by the Association, an amount which will enable it to maintain its relative voting power, but no member shall be obligated to subscribe.

(*d*) All decisions under this Section shall be made by a two-thirds majority of the total voting power.

Section 2. *Supplementary Resources Provided by a Member in the Currency of Another Member*.

(*a*) The Association may enter into arrangements, on such terms and conditions consistent with the provisions of this Agreement as may be agreed upon, to receive from any member, in addition to the amounts payable by such member on account of its initial or any additional subscription, supplementary resources in the currency of another member, provided that the Association shall not enter into any such arrangement unless the Association is satisfied that the member whose currency is involved agrees to the use of such currency as supplementary resources and to the terms and conditions governing such use. The arrangements under which any such resources are received may include provisions regarding the disposition of earnings on the resources and regarding the disposition of the resources in the event that the member providing them ceases to be a member or the Association permanently suspends its operations.

(*b*) The Association shall deliver to the contributing member a Special Development Certificate setting forth the amount and currency of the resources so contributed and the terms and conditions of the arrangements relating to such resources. A Special Development Certificate shall not carry any voting rights and shall be transferable only to the Association.

(*c*) Nothing in this Section shall preclude the Association from accepting resources from a member in its own currency on such terms as may be agreed upon.

**Currencies.**

Section 1. *Use of Currencies*.

(*a*) Currency of any member listed in Part II of Schedule A, whether or not freely convertible, received by the Association pursuant to Article II, Section 2 (*d*), in payment of the ninety per cent. portion payable thereunder in the currency of such member, and currency of such member derived therefrom as principal, interest or other charges, may be used by the Association for administrative expenses incurred by the Association in the territories of such member and, insofar as consistent with sound monetary policies, in payment for goods and services produced in the territories of such member and required for projects financed by the Association and located in such territories; and in addition when and to the extent justified by the economic and financial situation of the member concerned as determined by agreement between the member and the Association, such currency shall be freely convertible or otherwise usable for projects financed by the Association and located outside the territories of the member.

(*b*) The usability of currencies received by the Association in payment of subscriptions other than initial subscriptions of original members, and currencies derived therefrom as principal, interest or other charges, shall be governed by the terms and conditions on which such subscriptions are authorised.

(*c*) The usability of currencies received by the Association as supplementary resources other than subscriptions, and currencies derived therefrom as principal, interest or other charges, shall be governed by the terms of the arrangements pursuant to which such currencies are received.

(*d*) All other currencies received by the Association may be freely used and exchanged by the Association and shall not be subject to any restriction by the member whose currency is used or exchanged; provided that the foregoing shall not preclude the Association from entering into any arrangements with the member in whose territories any project financed by the Association is located restricting the use by the Association of such member's currency received as principal, interest or other charges in connection with such financing.

(*e*) The Association shall take appropriate steps to ensure that, over reasonable intervals of time, the portions of the subscriptions paid under Article II, Section 2 (*d*) by members listed in Part I of Schedule A shall be used by the Association on an approximately *pro rata* basis, provided, however, that such portions of such subscriptions as are paid in gold or in a currency other than that of the subscribing member may be used more rapidly.

Section 2. *Maintenance of Value of Currency Holdings*.

(*a*) Whenever the par value of a member's currency is reduced or the foreign exchange value of a member's currency has, in the opinion of the Association, depreciated to a significant extent within that member's territories, the member shall pay to the Association within a reasonable time an additional amount of its own currency sufficient to maintain the value, as of the time of subscription, of the amount of the currency of such member paid in to the Association by the member under Article II, Section 2 (*d*), and currency furnished under the provisions of the present paragraph, whether or not such currency is held in the form of notes accepted pursuant to Article II, Section 2 (*e*), provided, however, that the foregoing shall apply only so long as and to the extent that such currency shall not have been initially disbursed or exchanged for the currency of another member.

(*b*) Whenever the par value of a member's currency is increased, or the foreign exchange value of a member's currency has, in the opinion of the Association, appreciated to a significant extent within that member's territories, the Association shall return to such member within a reasonable time an amount of that member's currency equal to the increase in the value of the amount of such currency to which the provisions of paragraph (*a*) of this Section are applicable.

(*c*) The provisions of the preceding paragraphs may be waived by the Association when a uniform proportionate change in the par value of the currencies of all its members is made by the International Monetary Fund.

(*d*) Amounts furnished under the provisions of paragraph (*a*) of this Section to maintain the value of any currency shall be convertible and usable to the same extent as such currency.

**Operations.**

Section 1. *Use of Resources and Conditions of Financing*.

(*a*) The Association shall provide financing to further development in the less-developed areas of the world included within the Association's membership.

(*b*) Financing provided by the Association shall be for purposes which in the opinion of the Association are of high developmental priority in the light of the needs of the area or areas concerned and, except in special circumstances, shall be for specific projects.

(*c*) The Association shall not provide financing if in its opinion such financing is available from private sources on terms which are reasonable for the recipient or could be provided by a loan of the type made by the Bank.

(*d*) The Association shall not provide financing except upon the recommendation of a competent committee, made after a careful study of the merits of the proposal. Each such committee shall be appointed by the Association and shall include a nominee of the Governor or Governors representing the member or members in whose territories the project under consideration is located and one or more members of the technical staff of the Association. The requirement that the committee include the nominee of a Governor or Governors shall not apply in the case of financing provided to a public international or regional organisation.

(*e*) The Association shall not provide financing for any project if the member in whose territories the project is located objects to such financing, except that it shall not be necessary for the Association to assure itself that individual members do not object in the case of financing provided to a public international or regional organisation.

(*f*) The Association shall impose no conditions that the proceeds of its financing shall be spent in the territories of any particular member or members. The foregoing shall not preclude the Association from complying with any restrictions on the use of funds imposed in accordance with the provisions of these Articles, including restrictions attached to supplementary resources pursuant to agreement between the Association and the contributor.

(*g*) The Association shall make arrangements to ensure that the proceeds of any financing are used only for the purposes for which the financing was provided, with due attention to considerations of economy, efficiency and competitive international trade and without regard to political or other non-economic influences or considerations.

(*h*) Funds to be provided under any financing operation shall be made available to the recipient only to meet expenses in connection with the project as they are actually incurred.

Section 2. *Form and Terms of Financing*.

(*a*) Financing by the Association shall take the form of loans. The Association may, however, provide other financing, either

(i) out of funds subscribed pursuant to Article III, Section 1, and funds derived therefrom as principal, interest or other charges, if the authorisation for such subscriptions expressly provides for such financing; or

(ii) in special circumstances, out of supplementary resources furnished to the Association, and funds derived therefrom as principal, interest or other charges, if the arrangements under which such resources are furnished expressly authorise such financing.

(*b*) Subject to the foregoing paragraph, the Association may provide financing in such forms and on such terms as it may deem appropriate, having regard to the economic position and prospects of the area or areas concerned and to the nature and requirements of the project.

(*c*) The Association may provide financing to a member, the government of a territory included within the Association's membership, a political subdivision of any of the foregoing, a public or private entity in the territories of a member or members, or to a public international or regional organisation.

(*d*) In the case of a loan to an entity other than a member, the Association may, in its discretion, require a suitable governmental or other guarantee or guarantees.

(*e*) The Association, in special cases, may make foreign exchange available for local expenditures.

Section 3. *Modifications of Terms of Financing*.

The Association may, when and to the extent it deems appropriate in the light of all relevant circumstances, including the financial and economic situation and prospects of the member concerned, and on such conditions as it may determine, agree to a relaxation or other modification of the terms on which any of its financing shall have been provided.

Section 4. *Co-operation with Other International Organisations and Members Providing Development Assistance*.

The Association shall co-operate with those public international organisations and members which provide financial and technical assistance to the less-developed areas of the world.

Section 5*. Miscellaneous Operations*.

In addition to the operations specified elsewhere in this Agreement, the Association may:

(i) borrow funds with the approval of the member in whose currency the loan is denominated;

(ii) guarantee securities in which it has invested in order to facilitate their sale;

(iii) buy and sell securities it has issued or guaranteed or in which it has invested;

(iv) in special cases, guarantee loans from other sources for purposes not inconsistent with the provisions of these Articles;

(v) provide technical assistance and advisory services at the request of a member; and

(vi) exercise such other powers incidental to its operations as shall be necessary or desirable in furtherance of its purposes.

Section 6. *Political Activity Prohibited*.

The Association and its officers shall not interfere in the political affairs of any member; nor shall they be influenced in their decisions by the political character of the member or members concerned. Only economic considerations shall be relevant to their decisions, and these considerations shall be weighed impartially in order to achieve the purposes stated in this Agreement.

**Organisation and Management.**

Section 1. *Structure of the Association*.

The Association shall have a Board of Governors, Executive Directors, a President and such other officers and staff to perform such duties as the Association may determine.

Section 2. *Board of Governors*.

(*a*) All the powers of the Association shall be vested in the Board of Governors.

(*b*) Each Governor and Alternate Governor of the Bank appointed by a member of the Bank which is also a member of the Association shall *ex officio* be a Governor and Alternate Governor, respectively, of the Association. No Alternate Governor may vote except in the absence of his principal. The Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Bank shall *ex officio* be Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Association except that if the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Bank shall represent a state which is not a member of the Association, then the Board of Governors shall select one of the Governors as Chairman of the Board of Governors. Any Governor or Alternate Governor shall cease to hold office if the member by which he was appointed shall cease to be a member of the Association.

(*c*) The Board of Governors may delegate to the Executive Directors authority to exercise any of its powers, except the power to:

(i) admit new members and determine the conditions of their admission;

(ii) authorise additional subscriptions and determine the terms and conditions relating thereto;

(iii) suspend a member;

(iv) decide appeals from interpretations of this Agreement given by the Executive Directors;

(v) make arrangements pursuant to Section 7 of this Article to co-operate with other international organisations (other than informal arrangements of a temporary and administrative character);

(vi) decide to suspend permanently the operations of the Association and to distribute its assets;

(vii) determine the distribution of the Association's net income pursuant to Section 12 of this Article; and

(viii) approve proposed amendments to this Agreement.

(*d*) The Board of Governors shall hold an annual meeting and such other meetings as may be provided for by the Board of Governors or called by the Executive Directors.

(*e*) The annual meeting of the Board of Governors shall be held in conjunction with the annual meeting of the Board of Governors of the Bank.

(*f*) A quorum for any meeting of the Board of Governors shall be a majority of the Governors, exercising not less than two-thirds of the total voting power.

(*g*) The Association may by regulation establish a procedure whereby the Executive Directors may obtain a vote of the Governors on a specific question without calling a meeting of the Board of Governors.

(*h*) The Board of Governors, and the Executive Directors to the extent authorised, may adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary or appropriate to conduct the business of the Association.

(*i*) Governors and Alternate Governors shall serve as such without compensation from the Association.

Section 3. *Voting*.

(*a*) Each original member shall, in respect of its initial subscription, have 500 votes plus one additional vote for each $5,000 of its initial subscription. Subscriptions other than initial subscriptions of original members shall carry such voting rights as the Board of Governors shall determine pursuant to the provisions of Article II, Section 1 (*b*) or Article III, Section 1 (*b*) and (*c*), as the case may be. Additions to resources other than subscriptions under Article II, Section 1 (*b*) and additional subscriptions under Article III, Section 1, shall not carry voting rights.

(*b*) Except as otherwise specifically provided, all matters before the Association shall be decided by a majority of the votes cast.

Section 4. *Executive Directors*.

(*a*) The Executive Directors shall be responsible for the conduct of the general operations of the Association, and for this purpose shall exercise all the powers given to them by this Agreement or delegated to them by the Board of Governors.

(*b*) The Executive Directors of the Association shall be composed *ex officio* of each Executive Director of the Bank who shall have been (i) appointed by a member of the Bank which is also a member of the Association, or (ii) elected in an election in which the votes of at least one member of the Bank which is also a member of the Association shall have counted towards his election. The Alternate to each such Executive Director of the Bank shall *ex officio* be an Alternate Director of the Association. Any Director shall cease to hold office if the member by which he was appointed, or if all the members whose votes counted towards his election, shall cease to be members of the Association.

(*c*) Each Director who is an appointed Executive Director of the Bank shall be entitled to cast the number of votes which the member by which he was appointed is entitled to cast in the Association. Each Director who is an elected Executive Director of the Bank shall be entitled to cast the number of votes which the member or members of the Association whose votes counted towards his election in the Bank are entitled to cast in the Association. All the votes which a Director is entitled to cast shall be cast as a unit.

(*d*) An Alternate Director shall have full power to act in the absence of the Director who shall have appointed him. When a Director is present, his Alternate may participate in meetings but shall not vote.

(*e*) A quorum for any meeting of the Executive Directors shall be a majority of the Directors exercising not less than one-half of the total voting power.

(*f*) The Executive Directors shall meet as often as the business of the Association may require.

(*g*) The Board of Governors shall adopt regulations under which a member of the Association not entitled to appoint an Executive Director of the Bank may send a representative to attend any meeting of the Executive Directors of the Association when a request made by, or a matter particularly affecting, that member is under consideration.

Section 5. *President and Staff*.

(*a*) The President of the Bank shall be *ex officio* President of the Association. The President shall be Chairman of the Executive Directors of the Association but shall have no vote except a deciding vote in case of an equal division. He may participate in meetings of the Board of Governors but shall not vote at such meetings.

(*b*) The President shall be chief of the operating staff of the Association. Under the direction of the Executive Directors he shall conduct the ordinary business of the Association and under their general control shall be responsible for the organisation, appointment and dismissal of the officers and staff. To the extent practicable, officers and staff of the Bank shall be appointed to serve concurrently as officers and staff of the Association.

(*c*) The President, officers and staff of the Association, in the discharge of their offices, owe their duty entirely to the Association and to no other authority. Each member of the Association shall respect the international character of this duty and shall refrain from all attempts to influence any of them in the discharge of their duties.

(*d*) In appointing officers and staff the President shall, subject to the paramount importance of securing the highest standards of efficiency and of technical competence, pay due regard to the importance of recruiting personnel on as wide a geographical basis as possible.

Section 6. *Relationship to the Bank*.

(*a*) The Association shall be an entity separate and distinct from the Bank and the funds of the Association shall be kept separate and apart from those of the Bank. The Association shall not borrow from or lend to the Bank, except that this shall not preclude the Association from investing funds not needed in its financing operations in obligations of the Bank.

(*b*) The Association may make arrangements with the Bank regarding facilities, personnel and services and arrangements for reimbursement of administrative expenses paid in the first instance by either organisation on behalf of the other.

(*c*) Nothing in this Agreement shall make the Association liable for the acts or obligations of the Bank, or the Bank liable for the acts or obligations of the Association.

Section 7. *Relations with Other International Organisations*.

The Association shall enter into formal arrangements with the United Nations and may enter into such arrangements with other public international organisations having specialised responsibilities in related fields.

Section 8*. Location of Offices*.

The principal office of the Association shall be the principal office of the Bank. The Association may establish other offices in the territories of any member.

Section 9. *Depositories*.

Each member shall designate its central bank as a depository in which the Association may keep holdings of such member's currency or other assets of the Association, or, if it has no central bank, it shall designate for such purpose such other institution as may be acceptable to the Association. In the absence of any different designation, the depository designated for the Bank shall be the depository for the Association.

Section 10. *Channel of Communication*.

Each member shall designate an appropriate authority with which the Association may communicate in connection with any matter arising under this Agreement. In the absence of any different designation, the channel of communication designated for the Bank shall be the channel for the Association.

Section 11. *Publication of Reports and Provision of Information*.

(*a*) The Association shall publish an annual report containing an audited statement of its accounts and shall circulate to members at appropriate intervals a summary statement of its financial position and of the results of its operations.

(*b*) The Association may publish such other reports as it deems desirable to carry out its purposes.

(*c*) Copies of all reports, statements and publications made under this Section shall be distributed to members.

Section 12. *Disposition of Net Income*.

The Board of Governors shall determine from time to time the disposition of the Association's net income, having due regard to provision for reserves and contingencies.

**Withdrawal; Suspension of Membership; Suspension of Operations.**

Section 1. *Withdrawal by Members*.

Any member may withdraw from membership in the Association at any time by transmitting a notice in writing to the Association at its principal office. Withdrawal shall become effective upon the date such notice is received.

Section 2. *Suspension of Membership*.

(*a*) If a member fails to fulfil any of its obligations to the Association, the Association may suspend its membership by decision of a majority of the Governors, exercising a majority of the total voting power. The member so suspended shall automatically cease to be a member one year from the date of its suspension unless a decision is taken by the same majority to restore the member to good standing.

(*b*) While under suspension, a member shall not be entitled to exercise any rights under this Agreement except the right of withdrawal, but shall remain subject to all obligations.

Section 3. *Suspension or Cessation of Membership in the Bank*.

Any member which is suspended from membership in, or ceases to be a member of, the Bank shall automatically be suspended from membership in, or cease to be a member of, the Association, as the case may be.

Section 4. *Rights and Duties of Governments Ceasing to be Members*.

(*a*) When a government ceases to be a member, it shall have no rights under this Agreement except as provided in this Section and in Article X (*c*), but it shall, except as in this Section otherwise provided, remain liable for all financial obligations undertaken by it to the Association, whether as a member, borrower, guarantor or otherwise.

(*b*) When a government ceases to be a member, the Association and the government shall proceed to a settlement of accounts. As part of such settlement of accounts, the Association and the government may agree on the amounts to be paid to the government on account of its subscription and on the time and currencies of payment. The term “subscription” when used in relation to any member government shall for the purposes of this Article be deemed to include both the initial subscription and any additional subscription of such member government.

(*c*) If no such agreement is reached within six months from the date when the government ceased to be a member, or such other time as may be agreed upon by the Association and the government, the following provisions shall apply:

(i) The government shall be relieved of any further liability to the Association on account of its subscription, except that the government shall pay to the Association forthwith amounts due and unpaid on the date when the government ceased to be a member and which in the opinion of the Association are needed by it to meet its commitments as of that date under its financing operations.

(ii) The Association shall return to the government funds paid in by the government on account of its subscription or derived therefrom as principal repayments and held by the Association on the date when the government ceased to be a member, except to the extent that in the opinion of the Association such funds will be needed by it to meet its commitments as of that date under its financing operations.

(iii) The Association shall pay over to the government a *pro rata* share of all principal repayments received by the Association after the date on which the government ceases to be a member on loans contracted prior thereto, except those made out of supplementary resources provided to the Association under arrangements specifying special liquidation rights. Such share shall be such proportion of the total principal amount of such loans as the total amount paid by the government on account of its subscription and not returned to it pursuant to clause (ii) above shall bear to the total amount paid by all members on account of their subscriptions which shall have been used or in the opinion of the Association will be needed by it to meet its commitments under its financing operations as of the date on which the government ceases to be a member. Such payment by the Association shall be made in instalments when and as such principal repayments are received by the Association, but not more frequently than annually. Such instalments shall be paid in the currencies received by the Association except that the Association may in its discretion make payment in the currency of the government concerned.

(iv) Any amount due to the government on account of its subscription may be withheld so long as that government, or the government of any territory included within its membership, or any political subdivision or any agency of any of the foregoing remains liable, as borrower or guarantor, to the Association, and such amount may, at the option of the Association, be applied against any such liability as it matures.

(v) In no event shall the government receive under this paragraph (*c*) an amount exceeding, in the aggregate, the lesser of the two following: (*a*) the amount paid by the government on account of its subscription, or (*b*) such proportion of the net assets of the Association, as shown on the books of the Association as of the date on which the government ceased to be a member, as the amount of its subscription shall bear to the aggregate amount of the subscriptions of all members.

(vi) All calculations required hereunder shall be made on such basis as shall be reasonably determined by the Association.

(*d*) In no event shall any amount due to a government under this Section be paid until six months after the date upon which the government ceases to be a member. If within six months of the date upon which any government ceases to be a member the Association suspends operations under Section 5 of this Article, all rights of such government shall be determined by the provisions of such Section 5 and such government shall be considered a member of the Association for purposes of such Section 5, except that it shall have no voting rights.

Section 5. *Suspension of Operations and Settlement of Obligations*.

(*a*) The Association may permanently suspend its operations by vote of a majority of the Governors exercising a majority of the total voting power. After such suspension of operations the Association shall forthwith cease all activities, except those incident to the orderly realisation, conservation and preservation of its assets and settlement of its obligations. Until final settlement of such obligations and distribution of such assets, the Association shall remain in existence and all mutual rights and obligations of the Association and its members under this Agreement shall continue unimpaired, except that no member shall be suspended or shall withdraw and that no distribution shall be made to members except as in this Section provided.

(*b*) No distribution shall be made to members on account of their subscriptions until all liabilities to creditors shall have been discharged or provided for and until the Board of Governors, by vote of a majority of the Governors exercising a majority of the total voting power, shall have decided to make such distribution.

(*c*) Subject to the foregoing, and to any special arrangements for the disposition of supplementary resources agreed upon in connection with the provision of such resources to the Association, the Association shall distribute its assets to members *pro rata* in proportion to amounts paid in by them on account of their subscriptions. Any distribution pursuant to the foregoing provision of this paragraph (*c*) shall be subject, in the case of any member, to prior settlement of all outstanding claims by the Association against such member. Such distribution shall be made at such times, in such currencies, and in cash or other assets as the Association shall deem fair and equitable. Distribution to the several members need not be uniform in respect of the type of assets distributed or of the currencies in which they are expressed.

(*d*) Any member receiving assets distributed by the Association pursuant to this Section or Section 4 shall enjoy the same rights with respect to such assets as the Association enjoyed prior to their distribution.

**Status, Immunities and Privileges.**

Section 1. *Purposes of Article*.

To enable the Association to fulfil the functions with which it is entrusted, the status, immunities and privileges provided in this Article shall be accorded to the Association in the territories of each member.

Section 2. *Status of the Association*.

The Association shall possess full juridical personality and, in particular, the capacity:

(i) to contract;

(ii) to acquire and dispose of immovable and movable property;

(iii) to institute legal proceedings.

Section 3. *Position of the Association with Regard to Judicial Process*.

Actions may be brought against the Association only in a court of competent jurisdiction in the territories of a member in which the Association has an office, has appointed an agent for the purpose of accepting service or notice of process, or has issued or guaranteed securities. No actions shall, however, be brought by members or persons acting for or deriving claims from members. The property and assets of the Association shall, wheresoever located and by whomsoever held, be immune from all forms of seizure, attachment or execution before the delivery of final judgment against the Association.

Section 4. *Immunity of Assets from Seizure*.

Property and assets of the Association, wherever located and by whomsoever held, shall be immune from search, requisition, confiscation, expropriation or any other form of seizure by executive or legislative action.

Section 5*. Immunity of Archives*.

The archives of the Association shall be inviolable.

Section 6. *Freedom of Assets from Restrictions*.

To the extent necessary to carry out the operations provided for in this Agreement and subject to the provisions of this Agreement, all property and assets of the Association shall be free from restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature.

Section 7*. Privilege for Communications*.

The official communications of the Association shall be accorded by each member the same treatment that it accords to the official communications of other members.

Section 8. *Immunities and Privileges of Officers and Employees*.

All Governors, Executive Directors, Alternates, officers and employees of the Association

(i) shall be immune from legal process with respect to acts performed by them in their official capacity except when the Association waives this immunity;

(ii) not being local nationals, shall be accorded the same immunities from immigration restrictions, alien registration requirements and national service obligations and the same facilities as regards exchange restrictions as are accorded by members to the representatives, officials, and employees of comparable rank of other members;

(iii) shall be granted the same treatment in respect of travelling facilities as is accorded by members to representatives, officials and employees of comparable rank of other members.

Section 9. *Immunities from Taxation*.

(*a*) The Association, its assets, property, income and its operations and transactions authorised by this Agreement, shall be immune from all taxation and from all customs duties. The Association shall also be immune from liability for the collection or payment of any tax or duty.

(*b*) No tax shall be levied on or in respect of salaries and emoluments paid by the Association to Executive Directors, Alternates, officials or employees of the Association who are not local citizens, local subjects, or other local nationals.

(*c*) No taxation of any kind shall be levied on any obligation or security issued by the Association (including any dividend or interest thereon) by whomsoever held

(i) which discriminates against such obligation or security solely because it is issued by the Association; or

(ii) if the sole jurisdictional basis for such taxation is the place or currency in which it is issued, made payable or paid, or the location of any office or place of business maintained by the Association.

(*d*) No taxation of any kind shall be levied on any obligation or security guaranteed by the Association (including any dividend or interest thereon) by whomsoever held

(i) which discriminates against such obligation or security solely because it is guaranteed by the Association; or

(ii) if the sole jurisdictional basis for such taxation is the location of any office or place of business maintained by the Association.

Section 10. *Application of Article*.

Each member shall take such action as is necessary in its own territories for the purpose of making effective in terms of its own law the principles set forth in this Article and shall inform the Association of the detailed action which it has taken.

**Amendments.**

(*a*) Any proposal to introduce modifications in this Agreement, whether emanating from a member, a Governor or the Executive Directors, shall be communicated to the Chairman of the Board of Governors who shall bring the proposal before the Board. If the proposed amendment is approved by the Board, the Association shall, by circular letter or telegram, ask all members whether they accept the proposed amendment. When three-fifths of the members, having four-fifths of the total voting power, have accepted the proposed amendments, the Association shall certify the fact by formal communication addressed to all members.

(*b*) Notwithstanding (*a*) above, acceptance by all members is required in the case of any amendment modifying

(i) the right to withdraw from the Association provided in Article VII, Section 1;

(ii) the right secured by Article III, Section 1 (*c*);

(iii) the limitation on liability provided in Article II, Section 3.

(*c*) Amendments shall enter into force for all members three months after the date of the formal communication unless a shorter period is specified in the circular letter or telegram.

**Interpretation and Arbitration.**

(*a*) Any question of interpretation of the provisions of this Agreement arising between any member and the Association or between any members of the Association shall be submitted to the Executive Directors for their decision. If the question particularly affects any member of the Association not entitled to appoint an Executive Director of the Bank, it shall be entitled to representation in accordance with Article VI, Section 4 (*g*).

(*b*) In any case where the Executive Directors have given a decision under (*a*) above, any member may require that the question be referred to the Board of Governors, whose decision shall be final. Pending the result of the reference to the Board of Governors, the Association may, so far as it deems necessary, act on the basis of the decision of the Executive Directors.

(*c*) Whenever a disagreement arises between the Association and a country which has ceased to be a member, or between the Association and any member during the permanent suspension of the Association, such disagreement shall be submitted to arbitration by a tribunal of three arbitrators, one appointed by the Association, another by the country involved and an umpire who, unless the parties otherwise agree, shall be appointed by the President of the International Court of Justice or such other authority as may have been prescribed by regulation adopted by the Association. The umpire shall have full power to settle all questions of procedure in any case where the parties are in disagreement with respect thereto.

**Final Provisions.**

Section 1. *Entry into Force*.

This Agreement shall enter into force when it has been signed on behalf of governments whose subscriptions comprise not less than sixty-five per cent. of the total subscriptions set forth in Schedule A and when the instruments referred to in Section 2 (*a*) of this Article have been deposited on their behalf, but in no event shall this Agreement enter into force before September 15, 1960.

Section 2. *Signature*.

(*a*) Each government on whose behalf this Agreement is signed shall deposit with the Bank an instrument setting forth that it has accepted this Agreement in accordance with its law and has taken all steps necessary to enable it to carry out all of its obligations under this Agreement.

(*b*) Each government shall become a member of the Association as from the date of the deposit on its behalf of the instrument referred to in paragraph (*a*) above except that no government shall become a member before this Agreement enters into force under Section 1 of this Article.

(*c*) This Agreement shall remain open for signature until the close of business on December 31, 1960, at the principal office of the Bank, on behalf of the governments of the states whose names are set forth in Schedule A, provided that, if this Agreement shall not have entered into force by that date, the Executive Directors of the Bank may extend the period during which this Agreement shall remain open for signature by not more than six months.

(*d*) After this Agreement shall have entered into force, it shall be open for signature on behalf of the government of any state whose membership shall have been approved pursuant to Article II, Section 1 (*b*).

Section 3. *Territorial Application*.

By its signature of this Agreement, each government accepts it both on its own behalf and in respect of all territories for whose international relations such government is responsible except those which are excluded by such government by written notice to the Association.

Section 4*. Inauguration of the Association*.

(*a*) As soon as this Agreement enters into force under Section 1 of this Article the President shall call a meeting of the Executive Directors.

(*b*) The Association shall begin operations on the date when such meeting is held.

(*c*) Pending the first meeting of the Board of Governors, the Executive Directors may exercise all the powers of the Board of Governors except those reserved to the Board of Governors under this Agreement.

Section 5. *Registration*.

The Bank is authorised to register this Agreement with the Secretariat of the United Nations in accordance with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations and the Regulations thereunder adopted by the General Assembly.

Done at Washington, in a single copy which shall remain deposited in the archives of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which has indicated by its signature below its agreement to act as depository of this Agreement, to register this Agreement with the Secretariat of the United Nations and to notify all governments whose names are set forth in Schedule A of the date when this Agreement shall have entered into force under Article XI, Section 1 hereof.

(U.S. $ Millions)*

| Australia | 2018 | Japan | 3359 |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Austria | 504 | Luxembourg | 101 |  |
| Belgium | 2270 | Netherlands | 2774 |  |
| Canada | 3783 | Norway | 672 |  |
| Denmark | 874 | Sweden | 1009 |  |
| Finland | 383 | Union of South Africa | 1009 |  |
| France | 5296 | United Kingdom | 13114 |  |
| Germany | 5296 | United States | 32029 |  |
| Italy | 1816 |  | ____ | 76307 |

| Afghanistan | 101 | Israel | 168 |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Argentina | 1883 | Jordan | 030 |  |
| Bolivia | 106 | Korea | 126 |  |
| Brazil | 1883 | Lebanon | 045 |  |
| Burma | 202 | Libya | 101 |  |
| Ceylon | 303 | Malaya | 252 |  |
| Chile | 353 | Mexico | 874 |  |
| China | 3026 | Morocco | 353 |  |
| Colombia | 353 | Nicaragua | 030 |  |
| Costa Rica | 020 | Pakistan | 1009 |  |
| Cuba | 471 | Panama | 002 |  |
| Dominican Republic | 040 | Paraguay | 030 |  |
| Ecuador | 065 | Peru | 177 |  |
| El Salvador | 030 | Philippines | 504 |  |
| Ethiopia | 050 | Saudi Arabia | 370 |  |
| Ghana | 236 | Spain | 1009 |  |
| Greece | 252 | Sudan | 101 |  |
| Guatemala | 040 | Thailand | 303 |  |
| Haiti | 076 | Tunisia | 151 |  |
| Honduras | 030 | Turkey | 580 |  |
| Iceland | 010 | United Arab Republic | 603 |  |
| India | 4035 | Uruguay | 106 |  |
| Indonesia | 1110 | Venezuela | 706 |  |
| Iran | 454 | Viet-Nam | 151 |  |
| Iraq | 076 | Yugoslavia | 404 |  |
| Ireland | 303 |  | ____ | 23693 |
|  |  |  | Total | 1,00000 |
|  |  |  |  |  |

*In terms of United States dollars of the weight and fineness in effect on January 1, 1960.
