---
title: "Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restrictions) Act , 1929"
identifier: "IE-1929-act-15"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1929-06-25"
last_updated: "1929-06-25"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1929/act/15"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Méadú Cíosa agus Úis Mhorgáiste (Coscanna), 1929"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1929/15"
---
# Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restrictions) Act , 1929

**1.**—In this Act—

##### 1 Definitions.

the expression “the Act of 1923” means the Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restrictions) Act, 1923 (No. 19 of 1923);

the expression “the Act of 1926” means the Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restrictions) Act, 1926 (No. 24 of 1926); and

the expression “the Act of 1928” means the Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restrictions) Act, 1928 (No. 5 of 1928).

##### 2 Continuance of Act of 1923.

**2.**—Section 2 of the Act of 1926 is hereby repealed and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained therein the Act of 1923 shall, subject to the amendments made therein by the Act of 1926, the Act of 1928 and this Act, continue in force until the 24th day of June, 1930, and shall then expire.

##### 3 Amendments in respect of the application of the Act of 1923.

**3.**—Section 2 of the Act of 1928 is hereby repealed and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that section 4 of the Act of 1926 shall be construed and have effect as if clause (*b*) of the paragraph thereby inserted in the Act of 1923, were amended by the substitution of the year 1930 for the year 1928 and as if clause (*c*) of the said paragraph were deleted.

##### 4 Short title, and citation.

**4.**—This Act may be cited as the Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restrictions) Act, 1929, and the Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restrictions) Acts, 1923 to 1928, and this Act may be cited together as the Increase of Rent and Mortgage Interest (Restrictions) Acts, 1923 to 1929.
