---
title: "Social Welfare (Amendment) Act , 1958"
identifier: "IE-1958-act-36"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1958-12-23"
last_updated: "1958-12-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1958/act/36"
title_ga: "An tAcht Leasa Shóisialaigh (Leasú), 1958"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1958/36"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Social Welfare (Amendment) Act , 1958

##### 1 Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Social Welfare Act, 1952.

##### 2 Amendment of First Schedule to Principal Act (employments and excepted employments).

**2.**—-The First Schedule to the Principal Act is hereby amended—

(*a*) by the deletion of paragraph 9 of Part I (being the paragraph inserted in that Part by Article 4 of the Social Welfare (Insurance Inclusions and Exclusions) Regulations, 1952, and

(*b*) the substitution for paragraph 1 of Part II of the following paragraph:

“1. Employment, otherwise than by way of manual labour, at a rate of remuneration exceeding in value eight hundred pounds a year, or in cases where such employment involves part-time service only, at a rate of remuneration which is equivalent to a rate of remuneration exceeding eight hundred pounds a year for whole-time service.”

##### 3 Crediting of contributions.

**3.**—(1) Where, on the commencement of this Act, a person becomes by virtue of section 2 of this Act an employed contributor and he is a person who, by virtue of paragraph 1 of Part II of the First Schedule to the Principal Act, had ceased to be an employed contributor—

(*a*) subject to the next paragraph, he shall be credited with employment contributions in respect of the period which began on the first day of the contribution year last preceding that in which the commencement of this Act occurs and ended on the day immediately before such commencement,

(*b*) he shall not be credited with an employment contribution in respect of any contribution week for which an employment contribution, other than an employment contribution reckonable only for the purposes of widow's (contributory) pension, has already been paid or credited for him.

(2) Where, the provisions of the Principal Act having been modified by regulations made for the purposes of section 12 of that Act in their application to persons employed in specified employments, the modification ceases to have effect in whole or in part consequent upon the making of further regulations—

(*a*) subject to the next paragraph, a person, becoming on the cesser insured for a new benefit by virtue of the cesser shall, for the purposes of the contribution conditions for that benefit, be credited with employment contributions in respect of the period which began on the first day of the contribution year last preceding that in which the cesser occurs and ended on the day immediately before the cesser,

(*b*) he shall not be credited with an employment contribution in respect of any contribution week for which an employment contribution reckonable for the purposes of the contribution conditions for the new benefit has already been paid or credited for him.

##### 4 Short title, collective citation, construction and commencement.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Social Welfare (Amendment) Act, 1958.

(2) The Social Welfare Acts, 1952 and 1956, and this Act may be cited together as the Social Welfare Acts, 1952 to 1958, and shall be construed together as one Act.

(3) This Act shall come into operation on such day as the Minister appoints by order.
