---
title: "Local Government (Remission of Rates) Act , 1950"
identifier: "IE-1950-act-7"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1950-03-23"
last_updated: "1950-03-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1950/act/7"
title_ga: "An tAcht Rialtais Áitiúil (Rátaí a Mhaitheamh), 1950"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1950/7"
---
# Local Government (Remission of Rates) Act , 1950

##### 1 Amendment of Local Government (Remission of Rates) Act, 1940.

**1.**—(1) Subsection (1) of section 1 of the Local Government (Remission of Rates) Act, 1940 (No. 8 of 1940), is hereby amended—

(i) by the deletion, in the definition of the expression “the prescribed period” of the date “the 31st day of March, 1949”, inserted therein by the Local Government (Remission of Rates) Act, 1948 (No. 14 of 1948), and the substitution therefor of the date “the 31st day of March, 1951”, and

(ii) by the deletion, in the definition of the word “residence” of paragraph (*e*), inserted therein by the Local Government (Remission of Rates) Act, 1943 (No. 6 of 1943), and the substitution therefor of the following paragraph—

“(*e*) any house in respect of which a grant was made before the passing of this Act or is made after the passing of this Act under the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) Acts, 1932 to 1949, or under the Housing (Amendment) Act, 1948 (No. 1 of 1948), or under that Act as amended by any enactment whether passed before or after the passing of this Act;”

(2) Subsection (1) of this section shall be deemed to have come into operation upon the coming into operation of the Local Government (Remission of Rates) Act, 1940 (No. 8 of 1940).

##### 2 Short title and collective citation.

**2.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Local Government (Remission of Rates) Act, 1950.

(2) The Local Government (Remission of Rates) Acts, 1940 to 1948, and this Act may be cited together as the Local Government (Remission of Rates) Acts, 1940 to 1950.
