---
title: "Unemployment Insurance Act , 1941"
identifier: "IE-1941-act-3"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1941-03-12"
last_updated: "1941-03-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1941/act/3"
title_ga: "An tAcht Árachais Díomhaointis, 1941"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1941/3"
---
# Unemployment Insurance Act , 1941

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920.

##### 2 Amendment of sub-section (4) of section 8 of the Principal Act in respect of certain persons in the Defence Forces.

**2.**—(1) In this section the expressions “the Forces” and “the Reserve” have the same meanings respectively as they have in the Defence Forces (Temporary Provisions) Acts, 1923 to 1940.

(2) Where, before or after the passing of this Act, any person either—

(*a*) is appointed under the Defence Forces (Temporary Provisions) Acts, 1923 to 1940, to temporary commissioned rank in the Forces or to permanent or temporary commissioned rank in the Reserve, or

(*b*) enlists under the said Acts in the Forces or the Reserve, such person shall be a person to whom this section applies.

(3) Where, in respect of any person to whom this section applies, no contribution is paid in any insurance year (whether beginning before or after the passing of this Act) and such person either serves in the Forces or, being a member of the Reserve, is called out on permanent service during the whole or part of such insurance year, such insurance year shall be disregarded in any application to such person of sub-section (4) of section 8 of the Principal Act.

##### 3 Amendment of sub-section (4) of section 8 of the Principal Act in respect of certain persons employed on ships.

**3.**—(1) Where—

(*a*) the registration of any ship registered in the State is transferred to another State after the 2nd day of September, 1939, whether before or after the passing of this Act, and

(*b*) any contribution is paid in respect of any person by reason of his employment on such ship in the insurance year in which such transfer of registration occurs,

such person shall be a person to whom this section applies.

(2) Where, in respect of any person to whom this section applies, no contribution is paid in any insurance year (whether beginning before or after the passing of this Act) subsequent to the insurance year in which the relevant transfer of a ship occurs, such insurance year shall be disregarded in any application to such person of sub-section (4) of section 8 of the Principal Act.

##### 4 Short title, construction, and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1941.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1933, and those Acts and this Act may be cited together as the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1941.
