---
title: "Health and Mental Treatment Act , 1957"
identifier: "IE-1957-act-16"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1957-07-18"
last_updated: "1957-07-18"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1957/act/16"
title_ga: "An tAcht Sláinte agus Cóireála Meabhair-Ghalar, 1957"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1957/16"
---
# Health and Mental Treatment Act , 1957

##### 1 Amendment of Health Act, 1953.

**1.**—(1) Section 15 of the Health Act, 1953 (No. 26 of 1953), is hereby amended—

(*a*) by the substitution in subsection (4) of “ten shillings” for “six shillings”, and

(*b*) by the substitution for subsection (5) of the following subsection:

“(5) (*a*) Specialist services under subsection (1) of this section shall be made available without charge for the persons specified in subsection (2) of section 14 of this Act.

(*b*) Where specialist services are made available under subsection (1) of this section for a person who is not a person specified in subsection (2) of section 14 of this Act and who is not an in-patient in an institution, there shall be charged, on each occasion on which the services are provided, such charge as may be specified by order made from time to time by the Minister, but not exceeding seven shillings and six pence in the case of an X-ray examination and three shillings in any other case, and such charge shall be collected in such manner as may be directed from time to time by the Minister.”

(2) Section 25 of the Health Act, 1953, is hereby amended by the substitution of “ten shillings” for “six shillings” in each of subsections (2) to (6).

##### 2 Amendment of Mental Treatment Act, 1945.

**2.**—Section 231A of the Mental Treatment Act, 1945 (No. 19 of 1945), being the section inserted by subsection (8) of section 71 of the Health Act, 1953, is hereby amended by the substitution in subsection (3) of “ten shillings” for “six shillings”.

##### 3 Short title, collective citations and commencement.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Health and Mental Treatment Act, 1957.

(2) The Health Acts, 1947 to 1954, and section 1 of this Act may be cited together as the Health Acts, 1947 to 1957.

(3) The Mental Treatment Act, 1945 (No. 19 of 1945), section 71 of the Health Act, 1953 (No. 26 of 1953), the Mental Treatment Act, 1953 (No. 35 of 1953), and section 2 of this Act may be cited together as the Mental Treatment Acts, 1945 to 1957.

(4) This Act shall come into operation on such day as the Minister for Health appoints by order.
