---
title: "Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices (Amendment) Act , 1952"
identifier: "IE-1952-act-19"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1952-12-09"
last_updated: "1952-12-09"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1952/act/19"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Oifigí Aireachta agus Parlaiminte (Leasú), 1952"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1952/19"
---
# Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices (Amendment) Act , 1952

##### 1 The Acts.

**1.**—In this Act “the Acts” means the Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices Acts, 1938 to 1949.

##### 2 Period of ministerial office in First Dáil Eireann.

**2.**—For the purposes of the Acts, the period of office of a person who held ministerial office in the First Dáil Éireann shall include the period between the date of his nomination to such office and the date of the ratification of his nomination by that Dáil.

##### 3 Extension of meaning of “ministerial office”.

**3.**—It is hereby declared, for the removal of doubts, that the expression “ministerial office” in Part IV of the Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices Act, 1938 (No. 38 of 1938), shall include the office of Director, being the ministerial head of a Department of the First Dáil Éireann, and the office held by a person acting as substitute for a Director.

##### 4 Widow's pension.

**4.**—Where the widow of a person who held a qualifying office does not qualify for a pension under the Acts, owing to the insufficiency of that person's pensionable service, she shall be entitled to receive a widow's pension of the same amount as if that person's pensionable service had been three years.

##### 5 Commencement of pensions.

**5.**—A pension payable in pursuance of section 2, 3 or 4 of this Act shall commence to be payable—

(*a*) in case an application therefor is duly made not later than six months after the date of the passing of this Act, on the date of such passing, or

(*b*) in any other case, on the date on which the application is duly made.

##### 6 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices (Amendment) Act, 1952.

(2) The Acts and this Act may be cited together as the Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices Acts, 1938 to 1952.

(3) The Acts and this Act shall be construed as one.
