---
title: "Sheepskin (Control of Export)(Amendment) Act , 1938"
identifier: "IE-1938-act-5"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1938-02-25"
last_updated: "1938-02-25"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1938/act/5"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Chroicne Caorach (Easportáil do Rialú)(Leasú), 1938"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1938/5"
---
# Sheepskin (Control of Export)(Amendment) Act , 1938

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “the Principal Act” means the Sheepskin (Control of Export) Act, 1934 (No. 13 of 1934);

the word “sheepskin” has the same meaning as is given to it by the Principal Act for the purposes of the Principal Act.

##### 2 Offences in respect of orders made under the Principal Act.

**2.**—(1) It shall not be lawful for any person to export or attempt to export sheepskin in contravention of an order made, whether before or after the passing of this Act, under the Principal Act.

(2) Any officer of Customs and Excise may detain and seize any articles being or attempted to be exported in contravention of this section, and for that purpose may open any packet containing, or suspected by him of containing, any such article, and the provisions of the Customs Consolidation Act, 1876, in relation to the condemnation and disposal of goods seized under that Act shall apply to all articles seized under this section in like manner as if they had been seized under that Act.

(3) The provisions of this section relating to the prohibition of the exportation or attempted exportation of articles shall have effect as though those provisions were included in the Customs Consolidation Act, 1876, and that Act and any Act amending or extending that Act shall apply accordingly, and if any person shall export or attempt to export any article in contravention of this section or bring or be in the act of bringing any article to any quay, road or other place whatsoever for the purpose of such exportation or attempted exportation, or shall aid or abet such exportation or attempted exportation, such person shall be liable to the same penalties, detention, and proceedings as those to which a person is liable under section 186 of the Customs Consolidation Act, 1876, for illegally importing prohibited goods.

##### 3 Repeal of section 3 of the Principal Act.

**3.**—Section 3 of the Principal Act is hereby repealed.

##### 4 Short title and citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Sheepskin (Control of Export) (Amendment) Act, 1938.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Sheepskin (Control of Export) Acts, 1934 and 1938.
