---
title: "Financial Transactions of Certain Companies and Other Bodies Act , 1992"
identifier: "IE-1992-act-C11"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1992-06-17"
last_updated: "1992-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1992/act/11"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Idirbhearta Airgeadais Cuideachtaí Áirithe agus Comhlachtaí Eile, 1992"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1992/11"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Financial Transactions of Certain Companies and Other Bodies Act , 1992

##### 1 Amendment of Article 29 of the Constitution.

**1.**—Article 29.4 of the Constitution is hereby amended as follows:

(*a*) by the repeal of the third sentence in subsection 3 of section 4 of the Irish text and by the insertion of the text set out in *Part I* of the Schedule to this Act;

(*b*) by the the repeal of the third sentence in subsection 3 of section 4 of the English text and by the insertion of the text set out in *Part II* of the Schedule to this Act.

##### 2 Citation.

**2.**—(1) The amendment of the Constitution effected by this Act shall be called the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution.

(2) This Act may be cited as the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution Act, 1992.

## SCHEDULE

## PART I

4 Tig leis an Stát an Connradh ar an Aontas Eorpach a sínigheadh i Maastricht ar an 7adh lá d'Fheabhra, 1992, do dhaingniú agus tig leis do bheith ina chomhalta den Aontas san.

5 Ní dhéanann aon fhoráileamh atá insan Bhunreacht so aon dlighthe d'achtuigh, gníomhartha do rinne nó bearta le n-ar ghlac an Stát, de bhíthin riachtanais na n-oibleagáidí mar chomhalta den Aontas Eorpach nó de na Comhphobail do chur ó bhail dlighidh ná cosc do chur le dlighthe d'achtuigh, gníomhartha do rinne nó bearta le n-ar ghlac an tAontas Eorpach nó na Comhphobail nó institiúidí díobh, nó comhluchtaí atá inneamhail fá na Connarthaí ag bunú na gComhphobal, ó fheidhm dlighidh do bheith aca sa Stát.

6 Tig leis an Stát an Comhaontú maidir le Paitinní Comhphobail a tarrainguigheadh suas idir Ballstáit na gComhphobal agus a rinneadh i Lucsamburg ar an 15adh lá de Nollaig, 1989, do dhaingniú.

## PART II

4 The State may ratify the Treaty on European Union signed at Maastricht on the 7th day of February, 1992, and may become a member of that Union.

5 No provision of this Constitution invalidates laws enacted, acts done or measures adopted by the State which are necessitated by the obligations of membership of the European Union or of the Communities, or prevents laws enacted, acts done or measures adopted by the European Union or by the Communities or by institutions thereof, or by bodies competent under the Treaties establishing the Communities, from having the force of law in the State.

6 The State may ratify the Agreement relating to Community Patents drawn up between the Member States of the Communities and done at Luxembourg on the 15th day of December, 1989.
