---
title: "Electricity (Supply)(Amendment) Act , 1976"
identifier: "IE-1976-act-35"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1976-12-14"
last_updated: "1976-12-14"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1976/act/35"
title_ga: "An tAcht Leictreachais (Soláthar)(Leasú), 1976"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1976/35"
---
# Electricity (Supply)(Amendment) Act , 1976

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Board” means the Electricity Supply Board;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Transport and Power.

##### 2 Contribution by Minister for Transport and Power towards cost of connection of certain premises to electricity supply.

**2.**—(1) This section applies to premises—

(*a*) in respect of which terms for connection to the electricity supply were quoted by the Board under the State-subsidised programme for the electrification of rural areas but which have not been connected to the electricity supply,

(*b*) in respect of which the capital cost of such connection at the date of such quotation exceeded £700, and

(*c*) in respect of which the terms quoted for such connection by the Board included a capital contribution by the owner or occupier of the premises.

(2) The Minister may, out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas, make a contribution towards the cost of connection to the electricity supply of premises to which this section applies.

(3) The amount of a contribution under this section in respect of particular premises shall be equal to that portion (as certified by the Board) of the capital cost of connection exceeding £700 which, apart from any legal remedy, could not be retrieved by the Board in the event of the electricity supply and installations connected therewith being so withdrawn from the premises as if it had never been decided to connect the premises to the electricity supply.

(4) The aggregate amount of contributions under this section shall not exceed £300,000.

(5) Where a contribution has been made under this section in respect of particular premises, the Board shall provide electricity supply to those premises on the terms which would apply, under the State -subsidised programme for the electrification of rural areas, to premises the capital cost of connection of which to the electricity supply was £700.

##### 3 Amendment of Electricity Supply Board (Superannuation) Act, 1942.

**3.**—Section 7 of the Electricity Supply Board (Superannuation) Act, 1942, is hereby amended by the insertion after subsection (9) (inserted by the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1972) of the following subsection :

“(10) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this section, a scheme amending the general employees superannuation scheme or the manual workers superannuation scheme may, with respect to any superannuation benefit, provide for the granting of additional superannuation benefits to a contributing member who retires or is discharged because of ill-health.”

##### 4 Expenses.

**4.**—The expenses incurred by the Minister in the administration of this Act shall, to such extent as may be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

##### 5 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1976.

(2) The Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1974, and this Act may be cited together as the Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1976.

(3) The Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1974, and this Act shall be construed together as one Act.
