---
title: "Housing Act , 1984"
identifier: "IE-1984-act-1"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1984-02-07"
last_updated: "1984-02-07"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1984/act/1"
title_ga: "Acht na dTithe, 1984"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1984/1"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Housing Act , 1984

##### 1 Definition.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Housing Act, 1966.

##### 2 Amendment of section 53 of Principal Act.

**2.**—The duty of a housing authority to have regard to the matters specified in subsection (1) of section 53 of the Principal Act in making an assessment under that subsection of the prospective future demand for housing shall be deemed to include, and always to have included, a power to have regard, to such extent (if any) as the authority consider appropriate, to the prospective future demand of persons who are residing outside the functional area of the authority for housing.

##### 3 Amendment of section 55 of Principal Act.

**3.**—The duty of a housing authority to have regard to the objectives specified in subsection (3) of section 55 of the Principal Act in preparing a building programme under that section shall be deemed to include, and always to have included, a power to have regard, to such extent (if any) as the authority consider appropriate, to the following objective, that is to say, the provision of adequate housing accommodation to meet needs arising from the demand of persons who are residing outside the functional area of the authority for housing, and the reference in subsection (1) of that section to the housing needs of the functional area of the authority shall be construed and have effect accordingly.

##### 4 Amendment of section 60 of Principal Act.

**4.**—The duty of a housing authority to have regard to the primary objectives specified in subsection (3) of section 60 of the Principal Act in making or amending a scheme under that section shall be deemed to include, and always to have included, a power to have regard, to such extent (if any) as the authority consider appropriate, to the following primary objective, that is to say, the provision of adequate and suitable housing accommodation for persons seeking such accommodation, being persons who are residing outside the functional area of the authority and who, in the opinion of the authority, are in need of and are unable to provide such accommodation from their own resources.

##### 5 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Housing Act, 1984.

(2) The Housing Acts, 1966 to 1979, and this Act may be cited together as the Housing Acts, 1966 to 1984, and shall be construed together as one Act.
