---
title: "Ministers and Secretaries (Amendment) Act , 1959"
identifier: "IE-1959-act-17"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1959-07-27"
last_updated: "1959-07-27"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1959/act/17"
title_ga: "An tAcht Airí agus Rúnaithe (Leasú), 1959"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1959/17"
---
# Ministers and Secretaries (Amendment) Act , 1959

##### 1 Appointed day.

**1.**—The Government may by order appoint a day to be the appointed day for the purposes of this Act.

##### 2 The Department of Transport and Power.

**2.**—(1) On the appointed day a Department of State to be styled and known as An Roinn Iompair agus Cumhachta or (in English) the Department of Transport and Power shall stand established.

(2) The member of the Government who is in charge of the Department of Transport and Power shall be styled and known as An tAire Iompair agus Cumhachta or (in English) the Minister for Transport and Power.

(3) The Ministers and Secretaries Acts, 1924 to 1956, and the Documentary Evidence Act, 1925, shall apply to the Department of Transport and Power and the member of the Government who is in charge thereof as if that Department had been established by section 1 of the Ministers and Secretaries Act, 1924.

(4) For the purposes of subsection (1) of section 6 of the Ministers and Secretaries (Amendment) Act, 1939, the Department of Transport and Power and the office of Minister for Transport and Power shall be deemed to have been established immediately upon the passing of this Act, but any order which is made, in relation to that Department or that Minister, under the said subsection (1) before the appointed day shall not be expressed to come into operation on a date earlier than the appointed day.

##### 3 Short title, construction and citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Ministers and Secretaries (Amendment) Act, 1959.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Ministers and Secretaries Acts, 1924 to 1956, and this Act and those Acts may be cited together as the Ministers and Secretaries Acts, 1924 to 1959.
