---
title: "Housing Act , 1928"
identifier: "IE-1928-act-31"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1928-11-30"
last_updated: "1928-11-30"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1928/act/31"
title_ga: "Acht na dTithe, 1928"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1928/31"
---
# Housing Act , 1928

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.—**In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Housing Act, 1925 (No. 12 of 1925).

##### 2 Repeal.

**2.—**The Housing Act, 1926 (No. 31 of 1926), is hereby repealed.

##### 3 Aggregate amount of grants under the Principal Act.

**3.—**The aggregate amount of the grants to be made under section 3 of the Principal Act shall not exceed the sum of Eight Hundred and Fifty Thousand Pounds.

##### 4 Amendment of section 6 of the Principal Act.

**4.—**Section 6 of the Principal Act shall be construed and have effect and shall be deemed always to have had effect as if the words “or reconstruction” were inserted in the first clause of sub-section (1) thereof immediately after the words “assist the erection” now contained in that clause.

##### 5 Extension of time for erection, etc., of houses.

**5.—**(1) The Principal Act shall be construed and have effect and be deemed always to have had effect as if the following rule were inserted in the First Schedule to that Act in lieu of the rule 5 now contained in that Schedule, that is to say:—

“5. The erection or reconstruction of a house shall have been begun after the passing of this Act and not later than the 1st day of April, 1929, and shall have been completed before the 18th day of October, 1929, or within such further period not exceeding four months from the said 18th day of October, 1929, as the Minister in any particular case may allow.”

(2) The Principal Act shall be construed and have effect and be deemed always to have had effect as if the following note were inserted at the end of Part I of the Second Schedule to that Act in lieu of the note now contained in that Part of that Schedule, that is to say:—

“Note:—Where, in the case of a house to which this Act applies, the erection or reconstruction is not completed before the 18th day of October, 1929, and the time for such completion is extended, the grant shall, unless the Minister otherwise directs, be reduced by one-tenth for every month between the said 18th day of October, 1929, and the date of actual completion of the erection or re-construction.”

##### 6 Short title and citation.

**6.—**This Act may be cited as the Housing Act, 1928, and the Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Housing Acts, 1925 and 1928.
