---
title: "Local Government (Temporary Provisions )(Amendment) Act , 1924"
identifier: "IE-1924-act-13"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1924-04-12"
last_updated: "1924-04-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1924/act/13"
title_ga: "An tAcht Rialtais Áitiúla (Forálacha Sealadacha) (Leasú), 1924"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1924/13"
---
# Local Government (Temporary Provisions )(Amendment) Act , 1924

##### 1 Meaning of “Principal Act.”

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Local Government (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1923 (No. 9 of 1923).

##### 2 Duration of County Schemes.

**2.**—Section 6 of the Principal Act is hereby repealed, and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that every County Scheme shall, subject to the other provisions of the Principal Act, continue in operation so long as the Principal Act continues in force and no longer.

##### 3 Amendment of section 13 of the Principal Act.

**3.**—Section 13 of the Principal Act is hereby repealed, and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that sub-section (3) of section 3 (which authorises borrowing on short term loans by local authorities), and section 6 (which relaxes the limit of borrowing powers of local authorities in certain cases) of the Local Authorities (Financial Provisions) Act, 1921, shall be amended by the substitution of the words “during the continuance of the Local Government (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1923 (No. 9 of 1923)”, for the words “before the first day of April, nineteen hundred and twenty-three”, and for the words “until the first day of April, nineteen hundred and twenty-three”, wherever those words respectively occur.

##### 4 Amendment of section 16 of the Principal Act.

**4.**—The following sub-section shall be substituted for sub-section (1) of section 16 of the Principal Act, that is to say:—

“(1) The council of any county or urban district, in addition to any existing power, may at any time while this Act is in force but not more than once in any local financial year, raise in the manner provided by section 19 of the Agriculture and Technical Instruction (Ireland) Act, 1899, a sum equal to a rate of one penny in the pound on the rateable value mentioned in that section.”

##### 5 Short title and construction.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Local Government (Temporary Provisions) (Amendment) Act, 1924.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Principal Act and this Act and the Principal Act may be cited together as the Local Government (Temporary Provisions) Acts, 1923 and 1924.

(3) This Act shall be deemed to have come into force on and shall take effect as on and from the 31st day of March, 1924.
