---
title: "Public Charitable Hospitals (No. 2) Act , 1931"
identifier: "IE-1931-act-49"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1931-12-22"
last_updated: "1931-12-22"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1931/act/49"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Oispidéil Phuiblí Dhéirciúla (Uimh. 2) 1931"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1931/49"
---
# Public Charitable Hospitals (No. 2) Act , 1931

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “the Principal Act” means the Public Charitable Hospitals (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1930 (No. 12 of 1930);

the expression “the Amending Act” means the Public Charitable Hospitals (Amendment) Act, 1931 (No. 24 of 1931);

the expression “available surplus” has the same meaning as it has in sections 5 and 6 of the Amending Act;

the expression “nursing organisation” means an institution or organisation which has for its sole or principal object the nursing of and providing of nurses for poor persons suffering from physical diseases or injuries or women in childbirth.

##### 2 Payment of share of available surplus to nursing organisations.

**2.**—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 6 of the Amending Act, one-twenty-fifth part of the portion of every available surplus paid to the Minister for Local Government and Public Health under that section shall be paid or applied by the said Minister in such manner as he shall think proper to or for the benefit of such nursing organisations as he shall think fit.

(2) Where the Minister for Local Government and Public Health pays under this section any money out of an available surplus to a nursing organisation, he may require as a condition of such payment that such money shall be applied by such organisation only for or in relation to the promotion of its objects in particular areas specified by the said Minister.

##### 3 Short title, citation, and duration.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Public Charitable Hospitals (Amendment) (No. 2) Act, 1931.

(2) For the purposes of collective citation the expression “the Public Charitable Hospitals Acts, 1930 and 1931”, shall include this Act.

(3) This Act shall remain in force for so long as the Principal Act continues in force and no longer.
