---
title: "Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) (Amendment) Act , 1947"
identifier: "IE-1947-act-23"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1947-07-23"
last_updated: "1947-07-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1947/act/23"
title_ga: "Acht an Oireachtais (Liúntais do Chomhaltaí) (Leasú), 1947"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1947/23"
---
# Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) (Amendment) Act , 1947

##### 1 Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act, the expression “the Principal Act” means the Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) Act, 1938 (No. 34 of 1938).

##### 2 Amendment of definition of expression “travelling facilities” in the Principal Act.

**2.**—The definition (contained in section 1 of the Principal Act) of the expression “travelling facilities” is hereby repealed, and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that each of the following shall be travelling facilities for the purposes of the Principal Act, that is to say—

(*a*) the provision of free first-class railway travelling,

(*b*) the repayment of fare paid for travelling in any public omnibus or similar public conveyance,

(*c*) the repayment of expenses of travelling in the member's own motor car at such mileage rates as may from time to time be sanctioned by the Minister,

(*d*) the repayment of such other travelling expenses as the Minister shall be satisfied were reasonably incurred.

##### 3 Amendment of section 3 of the Principal Act.

**3.**—(1) In subsection (1) of section 3 of the Principal Act, the reference to £40 shall be construed as a reference to that sum increased by thirty per cent.

(2) In subsection (2) of section 3 of the Principal Act, the reference to £30 shall be construed as a reference to that sum increased by thirty per cent.

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) (Amendment) Act, 1947.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) Acts, 1938 and 1947.
