---
title: "National Health Insurance Act , 1924"
identifier: "IE-1924-act-30"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1924-07-28"
last_updated: "1924-07-28"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1924/act/30"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Árachas Sláinte Náisiúnta, 1924"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1924/30"
---
# National Health Insurance Act , 1924

##### 1 Establishment of Medical Certification Fund.

**1.**—There shall be established under the control and management of the Irish Insurance Commissioners, a fund to be known as the Medical Certification Fund.

##### 2 Method of providing funds for Medical Certification Fund.

**2.**—(1) There shall be debited—

(*a*) to the benefit fund of every approved society, the sum of tenpence in respect of each member (not being a serving soldier) of that approved society, and

(*b*) to the Military Forces (International Arrangements) Insurance Fund, the sum of tenpence in respect of each member (not being a serving soldier) of that fund, and

(*c*) to the Deposit Contributors' Fund, the sum of tenpence in respect of each member of that fund, and

(*d*) to the Exempt Persons' Fund, the sum of fivepence in respect of each member of that fund.

(2) The several sums directed by the foregoing sub-section to be debited to the benefit fund of every approved society, the Military Forces (International Arrangements) Fund, the Deposit Contributors' Fund, and the Exempt Persons' Fund respectively, shall be credited to the Medical Certification Fund.

(3) For the purpose of calculating the total sum to be debited to any fund under this section, the total number of members (not being serving soldiers) of a society or fund shall be calculated in such manner as the Irish Insurance Commissioners shall direct.

##### 3 Certain sums to be transferred from Stamp Sales Account to Medical Certification Fund.

**3.**—(1) Subject to the limitation hereinafter prescribed, such part as the Irish Insurance Commissioners shall direct of the sums which under section 29 of the National Health Insurance Act, 1918 (which provides for the disposal of sums unclaimed in the Stamps Sales Account) would be carried to the National Health Insurance Central Fund shall, instead of being so carried, be credited to the Medical Certification Fund.

(2) The total amount to be credited to the Medical Certification Fund under this section shall not exceed such sum as, together with the sums to be credited to the said Fund under the foregoing provisions of this Act, shall be sufficient to meet the sums directed by this Act to be paid out of the Medical Certification Fund.

##### 4 Sums to be paid out of the Medical Certification Fund.

**4.**—There shall be paid out of the Medical Certification Fund—

(*a*) such sums in respect of the year 1924 as the Irish Insurance Commissioners with the approval of the Minister for Finance may determine to be payable to medical practitioners for medical certification, and

(*b*) to each approved society such sum calculated at a rate not exceeding one penny and one half-penny per annum in respect of each member (not being a serving soldier) of the society as may be required to meet any sums sanctioned by the Minister for Finance for payment in the year 1924 to that approved society in respect of the cost of obtaining second medical opinions.

##### 5 Application of Part IV of the National Health Insurance Act, 1923.

**5.**—Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in sub-section (1) of section 25 of the National Health Insurance Act, 1923 (No. 20 of 1923), Part IV of that Act shall apply and be deemed always to have applied to soldiers enlisted after the 1st day of May, 1923, for a period exceeding twelve months as well as to the soldiers mentioned in the said sub-section.

##### 6 Extension of section 27 of National Health Insurance Act, 1923.

**6.**—Section 27 (which relates to the application of sums unclaimed in the Stamps Sales Account) of the National Health Insurance Act, 1923 (No. 20 of 1923), shall continue in force until the 31st day of December, 1925.

##### 7 Commencement, duration, short title, and construction.

**7.**—(1) This Act shall be deemed to have come into operation on and shall be in force and have effect as on and from the 1st day of January, 1924.

(2) This Act may be cited as the National Health Insurance Act, 1924, and shall be construed as one with the National Health Insurance Acts, 1911 to 1923.

(3) The National Health Insurance Acts, 1911 to 1923, and this Act may be cited together as the National Health Insurance Acts, 1911 to 1924.
