---
title: "Local Elections (Amendment) Act , 1941"
identifier: "IE-1941-act-20"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1941-08-07"
last_updated: "1941-08-07"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1941/act/20"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Thoghacháin Áitiúla (Leasú), 1941"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1941/20"
---
# Local Elections (Amendment) Act , 1941

##### 1 The Principal Act and the Act of 1940.

**1.**— In this Act—

the expression “the Principal Act” means the Local Elections Act, 1937 (No. 14 of 1937), and the expression “the Act of 1940” means the Local Elections (Amendment) Act, 1940.

##### 2 Construction and definitions.

**2.**—(1) This Act shall be read and construed as one with the Principal Act and the Act of 1940.

(2) In this Act the expression “the Minister” means the Minister for Local Government and Public Health.

(3) Every body which is a local authority for the purposes of Part II. of the Principal Act and also (except in the amendment made by this Act of section 5 of the Principal Act) the council of the county borough of Cork shall be a local authority for the purposes of this Act, and the expression “local authority” shall be construed accordingly in this Act.

##### 3 Amendment of sections 5 and 7 of the Principal Act.

**3.**—(1) Section 5 of the Principal Act, as amended by sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act of 1940, is hereby amended by the deletion of sub-section (1) of that section and the insertion in the said section of the following sub-section in lieu of the sub-section so deleted, that is to say:—

“(1) The Minister shall, before the 30th day of September, 1942, by order appoint in respect of every local authority a day not later than the 30th day of September, 1942, to be the appointed said day for the purposes of this Part of this Act in respect of such local authority.”

(2) Part II of the Principal Act (including section 5 thereof) shall be construed with due regard to the amendment made in the said section 5 by the foregoing sub-section of this section and, for the purpose of giving full effect to that amendment, the date the 30th day of September, 1942, shall be substituted for the date the 30th day of September, 1941, where the latter date is, by virtue of sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Act of 1940, mentioned in sub-section (3) of the said section 5 and in sub-section (2) of section 7 of the Principal Act.

##### 4 Amendment of Section 16 of the Principal Act.

**4.**—(1) Section 16 of the Principal Act, as amended by sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Act of 1940, is hereby amended by the deletion of sub-section (1) of that section and the insertion in the said section of the following sub-section in lieu of the sub-section so deleted, that is to say:—

“(1) The Minister shall, before the 30th day of September, 1942, by order appoint a day not later than the said 30th day of September, 1942, to be the appointed day for the purposes of this Part of this Act in respect of the Council.”

(2) Part III of the Principal Act (including section 16 thereof) shall be construed with due regard to the amendment made in the said section 16 by the foregoing sub-section of this section.

##### 5 Special provisions in relation to the year 1941

**5.**—(1) In the application in relation to any local authority of section 8, 9 or 10 (as the case may be) of the Local Elections Act, 1927 (No. 39 of 1927), and of section 11 of that Act, the year 1941 shall be and shall be deemed always to have been a year in which no triennial election to such local authority is held.

(2) Where the appointed day in relation to a local authority for the purposes of Part II of the Principal Act as amended by this Act or Part III of the Principal Act as amended by this Act (as the case may be) falls in the year 1941:—

(*a*) the reference in the foregoing sub-section to the year 1941 shall, in relation to such local authority, be construed as a reference to the part of such year prior to the said appointed day, and

(*b*) for the purposes of the application in relation, to such local authority of section 8, 9 or 10 (as the case may be) of the Local Elections Act, 1927 (No. 39 of 1927), and of section 11 of that Act, the remaining part of the year 1941 shall be deemed to be a year in which a triennial election is held.

##### 6 Power to resolve difficulties.

**6.**—Where any difficulty has arisen or is, in the opinion of the Minister, likely to arise in regard to the holding of any meeting of any local authority or other body by reason of any amendment of the Principal Act made by this Act or by reason of any other provision of this Act, the Minister may by order do any matter or thing which shall appear to him to be necessary (as the case may be) to enable such meeting to be held, or to constitute properly such local authority or other body, or to validate the procedure of such local authority or other body, or otherwise to resolve such difficulty, and may by such order make any necessary adaptations or modifications of any statute, order, or regulation.

##### 7 Short title and collective citation.

**7.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Local Elections (Amendment) Act, 1941.

(2) The Principal Act, the Act of 1940, and this Act may be cited together as the Local Elections Acts, 1937 to 1941.
