---
title: "Industrial Relations (Amendment) Act , 1955"
identifier: "IE-1955-act-19"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1955-07-29"
last_updated: "1955-07-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1955/act/19"
title_ga: "An tAcht Caidrimh Thionscail (Leasú), 1955"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1955/19"
---
# Industrial Relations (Amendment) Act , 1955

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Act of 1946” means the Industrial Relations Act, 1946 (No. 26 of 1946);

“local authority” has the meaning given to it by subsection (2) of section 4 of the Act of 1946.

##### 2 Extension of Part VI of Act of 1946 to other persons.

**2.** (1) In Part VI of the Act of 1946 “worker” shall include any person being—

(*a*) a servant of a local authority,

(*b*) a servant of a vocational education committee,

(*c*) a servant of a committee of agriculture,

(*d*) a health inspector,

(*e*) a nurse employed by a mental hospital authority within the meaning of the Mental Treatment Act, 1945 (No. 19 of 1945),

(*f*) an officer of a public assistance authority whose duties relate mainly to home assistance within the meaning of the Public Assistance Act, 1939 (No. 27 of 1939).

(2) The Government may by order extend the meaning of “worker” in Part VI of the Act of 1946 to include any specified class of officer of a local authority and may by order revoke any such order.

##### 3 Laying of orders before Oireachtas.

**3.**—Every order made under this Act shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made and, if a resolution annulling the order is passed by either House, within the next twenty-one days on which that House has sat after the order has been laid before it, the order shall be annulled accordingly but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Industrial Relations (Amendment) Act, 1955.

(2) The Act of 1946 and this Act may be cited together as the Industrial Relations Acts, 1946 and 1955.
