---
title: "Local Government Act , 1960"
identifier: "IE-1960-act-23"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1960-07-26"
last_updated: "1960-07-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1960/act/23"
title_ga: "An tAcht Rialtais Áitiúil, 1960"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1960/23"
---
# Local Government Act , 1960

##### 1 Provision of concert hall, theatre or opera house.

**1.**—(1) The corporation of a county borough may resolve either—

(*a*) to provide and maintain a concert hall, theatre or opera house, or

(*b*) to assist a society, committee, company or other body providing or proposing to provide a concert hall, theatre or opera house in any one or more of the following ways:

(i) by making a free grant,

(ii) by making a loan,

(iii) by guaranteeing the repayment of the whole or part of any loan raised by the body and the payment of interest thereon.

(2) Where the corporation of a county borough pass a resolution under subsection (1) of this section—

(*a*) they shall, within fourteen days after the day of the passing of the resolution, cause the resolution to be published in three newspapers (of which one at least is a daily newspaper) circulating in the county borough, and

(*b*) they may, on a day not earlier than sixty days, and not later than one hundred and eighty days, after the day of the passing of the resolution, confirm the resolution by a further resolution.

(3) Where a resolution has been passed under subsection (1) of this section and has been duly published and confirmed under subsection (2) of this section, the Minister for Local Government may by order confirm the resolution and include in the order such further provisions as he thinks necessary for giving effect to the resolution and thereupon the resolution shall become operative.

(4) The corporation of a county borough may, as a condition of making a grant or loan or giving a guarantee under this section, require the body concerned to enter into such agreements with the corporation as to the use and disposal of the concert hall, theatre or opera house as the corporation consider proper.

(5) The corporation of a county borough may acquire by agreement land for or including a concert hall, theatre or opera house to be provided by the corporation under this section.

(6) Each of the following, that is to say:

(*a*) the passing by the corporation of a county borough of a resolution under this section,

(*b*) a function of the corporation of a county borough under subsection (4) or (5) of this section,

shall be a reserved function for the purposes of the Acts relating to the management of the county borough.

##### 2 Use of concert hall, theatre or opera house provided by corporation of county borough.

**2.**—Where a concert hall, theatre or opera house is provided under this Act by the corporation of a county borough—

(*a*) it, or any part of it, may be used for the following purposes:

(i) concerts, stage plays, operas or other entertainments,

(ii) public or other meetings,

(iii) lectures, exhibitions, general recreation or other similar social objects,

(*b*) as respects use for other purposes, it may be so used provided that the use is occasional only, and any part of it may be so used provided that the use is occasional only or the part is not a substantial part thereof,

(*c*) it, or any part of it, may be used as provided for by this section either by the corporation themselves or, where the corporation make the appropriate letting, by the person to whom the letting is made (subject, in the latter case, to the terms of the letting),

(*d*) the corporation may incur such further expenditure as may be necessary for its proper operation and management.

##### 3 Borrowing.

**3.**—(1) The corporation of a county borough may, for the purposes of this Act, borrow in the same manner as they may borrow for the purpose of defraying expenses under the Local Government (Sanitary Services) Acts, 1878 to 1952.

(2) Money borrowed pursuant to this section may be lent to the corporation of a county borough by means of an issue from the local loans fund as if such loan constituted a local loan within the meaning of the Local Loans Fund Acts, 1935 to 1957, and was authorised by an Act of the Oireachtas.

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Local Government Act, 1960.

(2) The Local Government Acts, 1925 to 1959, and this Act may be cited together as the Local Government Acts, 1925 to 1960.
