---
title: "Prices Commission (Extension of Functions) Act , 1938"
identifier: "IE-1938-act-15"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1938-05-16"
last_updated: "1938-05-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1938/act/15"
title_ga: "An tAcht um an gCoimisiún Praghsanna (Feidhmeanna do Leathnú), 1938"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1938/15"
---
# Prices Commission (Extension of Functions) Act , 1938

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “the Minister” means the Minister for Industry and Commerce;

the expression “the Commission” means the Prices Commission.

##### 2 Review at the request of Minister of operation of customs duties and other import restrictions.

**2.**—(1) The Minister may, whenever and so often as he thinks fit, request the Commission to review, as respects any class or kind of goods (being goods which, if imported, would on importation be liable to a customs duty), the operation of the customs duty payable thereon.

(2) The Minister may, whenever and so often as he thinks fit, request the Commission to review, as respects any class or kind of goods (being goods the importation of which is for the time being prohibited or restricted by law), the operation of the restrictions on the importation thereof.

(3) Whenever the Minister requests the Commission under this section to make a review, the following provisions shall have effect, that is to say:—

(*a*) the Commission shall make, in accordance with the terms of such request, such review and, for the purposes of such review, the provisions of sections 10, 14, 17, 18, 19 and 20 of the Control of Prices Act, 1937 (No. 26 of 1937), shall apply in like manner as if such review were an investigation under the said Act;

(*b*) on the conclusion of such review the Commission shall make to the Minister a report of their proceedings and such report shall include the recommendations of the Commission in relation to the customs duties or the restrictions on importation the operation of which is the subject of such request.

(4) Where a review is being made under this section by the Commission in relation to goods of a particular class or kind and any member of the Commission is personally interested in any business selling goods of that class or kind, such member shall inform the Minister of the nature and extent of his interest and shall not, unless authorised by the Minister so to do, act as a member of the Commission for the purposes of such review.

(5) The Commission may for the purposes of any review under this section regulate their own procedure.

##### 3 Expenses.

**3.**—All expenses of carrying this Act into execution shall, to such extent as may be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

##### 4 Short title.

**4.**—This Act may be cited as the Prices Commission (Extension of Functions) Act, 1938.
