---
title: "Transport Act , 1959"
identifier: "IE-1959-act-31"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1959-11-24"
last_updated: "1959-11-24"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1959/act/31"
title_ga: "An tAcht Iompair, 1959"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1959/31"
---
# Transport Act , 1959

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Board” means Córas Iompair Éireann;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Transport and Power;

“whole-time member of the Board” means a member of the Board who is required by the terms of his appointment to devote the whole of his time to his duties as such member.

##### 2 Superannuation of whole-time members of the Board.

**2.**—(1) The Minister, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, may from time to time make a scheme (in this section referred to as a superannuation scheme) for the provision of pensions or gratuities or pensions and gratuities for or in respect of whole-time members of the Board.

(2) (*a*) The Minister, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, may by a subsequent superannuation scheme (in this section referred to as an amending scheme) amend a superannuation scheme or previous amending scheme.

(*b*) An amending scheme may be expressed to operate retrospectively.

(*c*) Any person, who has been a whole-time member of the Board for a period of not less than twelve months ending on the date on which an amending scheme comes into operation, may by notice, given to the Minister within six months after the date on which the amending scheme comes into operation, elect not to have the amending scheme apply to or in respect of him, and if he does so elect, then the amending scheme shall not apply to or in respect of him.

(3) (*a*) The Minister, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, may by a superannuation scheme revoke a previous superannuation scheme.

(*b*) Where a superannuation scheme (in this subsection referred to as the new scheme) revokes a previous superannuation scheme (in this subsection referred to as the revoked scheme), any person, who has been a whole-time member of the Board for a period of not less than twelve months ending on the date on which the new scheme comes into operation, may, by notice, given to the Minister within six months after the date on which the new scheme comes into operation, elect not to have the new scheme apply to or in respect of him, and if he does so elect, then—

(i) the new scheme shall not apply to or in respect of him, and

(ii) the revoked scheme shall, notwithstanding its revocation, continue to apply to or in respect of him.

(4) (*a*) The Minister, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, may by order revoke a superannuation scheme.

(*b*) Where a superannuation scheme is revoked under this subsection, it shall, notwithstanding its revocation, continue to apply to or in respect of any person who has been a whole-time member of the Board for a period of not less than twelve months ending on the date of the revocation.

(5) A superannuation scheme shall be carried out by the Board in accordance with its terms.

(6) Every superannuation scheme and every order under subsection (4) of this section shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid before each House of the Oireachtas, and if either House, within the next twenty-one days on which that House has sat after the superannuation scheme or order is laid before it, passes a resolution annulling the superannuation scheme or order, it shall be annulled accordingly but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.

##### 3 Compensation to former chairman of the Board.

**3.**—The Board shall pay to Thaddeus C. Courtney, a former chairman of the Board, who, on the ground of ill-health, resigned the chairmanship before the expiration of his period of office, the sum of £3,636, as compensation for the loss sustained by him by reason of such resignation.

##### 4 Amendment of the Second Schedule to the Transport Act, 1950.

**4.**—The Second Schedule to the Transport Act, 1960, is hereby amended in the following respects—

(*a*) paragraph 1 shall be deleted,

(*b*) subparagraph (3) of paragraph 2 shall be deleted,

(*c*) in subparagraph (2) of paragraph 3, “1 or” shall be deleted.

##### 5 Short title.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Transport Act, 1959
