---
title: "Merchant Shipping (Light Dues) Act , 1983"
identifier: "IE-1983-act-18"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1983-06-29"
last_updated: "1983-06-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1983/act/18"
title_ga: "An tAcht Loingis Cheannaíochta (Dírí Solais), 1983"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1983/18"
---
# Merchant Shipping (Light Dues) Act , 1983

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Minister” means the Minister for Transport;

“the Act of 1898” means the Merchant Shipping (Mercantile Marine Fund) Act, 1898.

##### 2 Second Schedule to Act of 1898 may be amended by order.

**2.**—(1) The Minister may by order amend the Second Schedule to the Act of 1898.

(2) An order under this section may have retrospective effect to a date which is not earlier than the 31st day of May, 1983, and is specified in the order and where the order provides that it is to have such effect, it shall have and be deemed always to have had effect as on and from the date so specified in that regard.

(3) The Minister may by order amend or revoke an order under this section (including an order under this subsection).

(4) The Minister shall cause every order made under this section to be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made and, if a resolution annulling the order is passed by either such House within the next twenty-one days on which that House has sat after the order is laid before it, the order shall be annulled accordingly but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.

(5) Where an order under this section is for the time being in force, the Second Schedule to the Act of 1898 shall be construed and have effect subject to the terms of the order.

##### 3 Repeals.

**3.**—The following provisions of section 5 of the Act of 1898 are hereby repealed; namely—

(*a*) all the words after “of this Act” in subsection (2);

(*b*) subsection (3).

##### 4 Short title, commencement, collective citation and construction.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Merchant Shipping (Light Dues) Act, 1983.

(2) The Merchant Shipping Acts, 1894 to 1981, and this Act may be cited together as the Merchant Shipping Acts, 1894 to 1983, and shall be construed together as one Act, and without prejudice to the generality of this provision, references in the Merchant Shipping Acts, 1894 to 1981, to the Merchant Shipping Acts shall be construed as including references to this Act.
