---
title: "Health (Family Planning)(Amendment) Act , 1985"
identifier: "IE-1985-act-4"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1985-03-12"
last_updated: "1985-03-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1985/act/4"
title_ga: "An tAcht Sláinte (Beartú Muiríne)(Leasú), 1985"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1985/4"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Health (Family Planning)(Amendment) Act , 1985

##### 1 “Principal Act”.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Health (Family Planning) Act, 1979.

##### 2 Control of sale and supply of contraceptives.

**2.**—Section 4 (1) of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution of the following subparagraphs for subparagraph (i) of paragraph (*b*):

“(i) (I) he is, or is the servant or agent acting as such of, a pharmaceutical chemist, or a dispensing chemist and druggist, who keeps open shop for the compounding and dispensing of medical prescriptions in accordance with the provisions of the Pharmacy Acts, 1875 to 1977, and the sale is made at the place where such open shop is kept, or

(II) he is a registered medical practitioner and the sale is made at a place where he ordinarily carries out his professional duties, or

(III) he is an employee of a health board acting as such and the sale is made at a health institution, or

(IV) he is, or is the servant or agent acting as such of, a person making available a family planning service in accordance with section 3 (3) of this Act and the sale is made at the place where that service is being made available, or

(V) he is an employee acting as such of a hospital providing maternity services or services for the treatment of sexually transmitted diseases and the sale is made at the hospital,

and either—

(i*a*) the sale is a sale of contraceptive sheaths or spermicides to a person over the age of 18 years, or”.

##### 3 Short title, citation, construction and commencement.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Health (Family Planning) (Amendment) Act, 1985.

(2) The Health Acts, 1947 to 1981, and this Act may be cited together as the Health Acts, 1947 to 1985.

(3) The Health Acts, 1947 to 1981, and this Act shall be construed together as one Act.

(4) This Act shall come into operation on such day as the Minister may appoint by order.
