---
title: "Comptroller and Auditor General (Amendment) Act , 1944"
identifier: "IE-1944-act-19"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1944-11-20"
last_updated: "1944-11-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1944/act/19"
title_ga: "Acht an Árd-Reachtaire Cuntas and Ciste (Leasú), 1944"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1944/19"
---
# Comptroller and Auditor General (Amendment) Act , 1944

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act, the expression “the Principal Act” means the Comptroller and Auditor-General Act, 1923 (No. 1 of 1923).

##### 2 Application of the Superannuation Acts to the Comptroller and Auditor General.

**2.**—(1) Where a person who is serving in an established capacity in the Civil Service is appointed Comptroller and Auditor General, he shall, if he so elects, be entitled to have applied to him the provisions of the Superannuation Acts, 1834 to 1942, as those Acts were applicable to him while so serving in the Civil Service, in lieu of the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 2 of the Principal Act and his service as Comptroller and Auditor General shall, for the purposes of such application, be deemed to be service in an established capacity in the Civil Service and to be reckonable with his actual service in an established capacity in the Civil Service.

(2) Any pension payable in pursuance of sub-section (2) of section 2 of the Principal Act or any award under the Superannuation Acts, 1834 to 1942, granted by virtue of sub-section (1) of this section shall be charged on and payable out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof.

(3) References in this section to the Superannuation Acts, 1834 to 1942, shall be construed as references to those Acts as amended by any subsequent enactment.

##### 3 Repeal.

**3.**—Sub-section (4) of section 2 of the Principal Act is hereby repealed.

##### 4 Short title and commencement.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Comptroller and Auditor General (Amendment) Act, 1944.

(2) This Act shall be deemed to have come into operation on, and shall have effect as on and from, the 1st day of April, 1944.
