---
title: "Agriculture (Amendment) Act , 1964"
identifier: "IE-1964-act-19"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1964-07-07"
last_updated: "1964-07-07"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1964/act/19"
title_ga: "An tAcht Talmhaíochta (Leasú), 1964"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1964/19"
---
# Agriculture (Amendment) Act , 1964

##### 1 Amendment of section 2 (1) of Agriculture (Amendment) Act, 1958.

**1.**—(1) Subsection (1) of section 2 of the Agriculture (Amendment) Act, 1958, is hereby amended by the substitution of “1965” and “twenty-one” for “1958” and “fifteen” respectively.

(2) This section shall come into operation on the 1st day of April, 1965, and all acts and things done before that day by the council of a county in relation to the making of any rate for the local financial year beginning on that day shall be as valid and effectual as if the foregoing provisions of this section were in force at the time those acts or things were done.

##### 2 Amendment of Second Schedule to Agriculture Act, 1931.

**2.**—(1) The Second Schedule to the Agriculture Act, 1931, is hereby amended as follows:

(*a*) the following Rule shall be substituted for Rule 2:

“2. Every committee of agriculture shall be composed both of persons who are and persons who are not members of the council and the members of any such committee who are members of the council shall not in number—

(*a*) in case the committee consists of an even number of members, exceed, or

(*b*) in case the committee consists of an odd number of members, exceed by more than one,

the members of the committee who are not members of the council.”

(*b*) in Rule 5 “member of the council” shall be substituted for “person”;

(*c*) the following Rule shall be inserted after Rule 5:

“5A. Every person, other than a member of the council, appointed to be a member of a committee of agriculture shall be chosen by the council for such appointment either by reason of his attainments in the practice of farming or the development of agriculture and rural living in the particular locality in which he resides, or by reason of his attainments in the promotion of agricultural or rural home education and advisory work.”

(2) This section shall come into force in relation to a committee of agriculture upon the commencement of the annual meeting of the council of a county by whom the members of the committee are appointed held next after the first quinquennial election of members of the said council held after the passing of this Act.

##### 3 Short title and collective citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Agriculture (Amendment) Act, 1964.

(2) The Agriculture Acts, 1931 to 1958, and this Act may be cited together as the Agriculture Acts, 1931 to 1964.
