---
title: "An Bord Bia (Amendment) Act , 1996"
identifier: "IE-1996-act-21"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1996-07-10"
last_updated: "1996-07-10"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1996/act/21"
title_ga: "An tAcht um an mBord Bia (Leasú), 1996"
long_title_ga: "Acht do leasú na nAchtanna um an mBord Bia, 1994 agus 1995"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1996/21"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# An Bord Bia (Amendment) Act , 1996

##### 1 Definition.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means An Bord Bia Act, 1994.

##### 2 Membership of Board.

**2.**—Section 14 of the Principal Act is hereby amended—

(*a*) by the substitution for subsection (1) (inserted by An Bord Bia (Amendment) Act, 1995), of the following subsection:

“(1) The Board shall consist of a chairman and 14 ordinary members.”,

and

(*b*) by the insertion after subsection (4A) (inserted by An Bord Bia (Amendment) Act, 1995), of the following subsection:

“(4B) One ordinary member shall be appointed on the nomination of such organisations as the Minister considers to be representative of consumers.”.

##### 3 Membership of meat and livestock subsidiary board.

**3.**—Section 15 of the Principal Act is hereby amended—

(*a*) by the substitution for subsection (1) of the following subsection:

“(1) The meat and livestock subsidiary board shall consist of a chairman and 12 ordinary members.”,

(*b*) in subsection (3), by the deletion in paragraph (*c*) of “and” after “such traders,”,

(*c*) in subsection (3), by the deletion in paragraph (*d*) of “such export trade.” and the substitution of “such export trade, and”,

(*d*) in subsection (3), by the insertion after paragraph (*d*) of the following paragraph:

“(*e*) one person who shall represent consumer interests who shall be appointed by the Board with the consent of the Minister on the nomination of such organisations as the Minister considers to be representative of such interests.”,

and

(*e*) in subsection (5), by the substitution for paragraph (*c*) of the following paragraph:

“(*c*) the remaining 4 members shall hold office for the period of 5 years from the date of their appointment.”.

##### 4 Membership of other subsidiary boards.

**4.**—Section 16 of the Principal Act is hereby amended—

(*a*) by the substitution for subsection (1) of the following subsection:

“(1) A subsidiary board established under section 13 (2) shall consist of a chairman and not fewer than 5 or more than 12 ordinary members.”,

and

(*b*) by the insertion after subsection (3) of the following subsection:

“(3A) One ordinary member shall be appointed on the nomination of such organisations as the Minister considers to be representative of consumers.”.

##### 5 Saver.

**5.**—This Act shall not affect the appointment under the Principal Act to the Board or a subsidiary board established under section 13 of the Principal Act of any person holding office immediately before the passing of this Act.

##### 6 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as An Bord Bia (Amendment) Act, 1996.

(2) An Bord Bia Acts, 1994 and 1995, and this Act may be cited together as An Bord Bia Acts, 1994 to 1996, and shall be construed together as one.
