---
title: "Registration of Marriages Act , 1936"
identifier: "IE-1936-act-35"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1936-07-24"
last_updated: "1936-07-24"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1936/act/35"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Chlárú Póstaíocha, 1936"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1936/35"
---
# Registration of Marriages Act , 1936

##### 1 Local authority.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “local authority” means a body in whom is vested the administration of the relief of the poor and, when used in relation to a registrar, means the body in whom is vested the said administration in the district of such registrar.

##### 2 Remuneration of registrars by local authorities.

**2.**—(1) As on and from the date of the passing of this Act, every local authority shall pay to every registrar for the purposes of the Registration of Marriages (Ireland) Act, 1863, whose district is situate in or is co-terminous with the functional area of such local authority an allowance (in addition to any remuneration payable to such registrar under any other Act), in respect of every year during which or any part of which such registrar has held office, of whichever of the following amounts is applicable, that is to say:—

(*a*) if such registrar has held office during the whole of such year—two pounds, or

(*b*) if such registrar has held office during part only of such year—an amount bearing to two pounds the same proportion as the said part of such year bears to one year.

(2) The allowance payable under this section to a registrar who holds office at the passing of this Act shall commence on the date of such passing, and every such registrar shall, for the purpose of calculating the amount payable to him in respect of such allowance, be deemed to have begun to hold office on the said date.

##### 3 Amendment of section 21 of the Registration of Marriages (Ireland) Act, 1863.

**3.**—The sum payable under section 21 of the Registration of Marriages (Ireland) Act, 1863, by a local authority to a registrar on production of the account mentioned in that section shall, in the case of every such account produced in pursuance of that section on or after the date of the passing of this Act, be calculated at the following rate in lieu of the rate mentioned in the said section, that is to say:—

(*a*) sixpence for every entry of marriage included in such account which was made before the date of the passing of this Act, and

(*b*) one shilling for every such entry which was made on or after the said date.

##### 4 Expenses of local authorities.

**4.**—All expenses incurred by a local authority under this Act shall be raised and defrayed in the manner in which expenses incurred by such local authority in the administration of the relief of the poor are raised and defrayed.

##### 5 Short title.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Registration of Marriages Act, 1936.
