---
title: "Health and Mental Treatment (Amendment) Act , 1966"
identifier: "IE-1966-act-2"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1966-01-18"
last_updated: "1966-01-18"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1966/act/2"
title_ga: "An tAcht Sláinte agus Cóireála Meabhair-Ghalar (Leasú), 1966"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1966/2"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Health and Mental Treatment (Amendment) Act , 1966

##### 1 Amendment of section 15 of Health Act, 1953.

**1.**—(1) In this section “the section” means section 15 of the Health Act, 1953, as amended.

(2) Subsection (2) of the section is hereby amended by—

(*a*) the substitution in paragraph (*b*) of “one thousand two hundred pounds” for “eight hundred pounds”, and

(*b*) the substitution in paragraph (*c*) of “sixty pounds” for “fifty pounds”.

(3) The following subsection is hereby substituted for subsection (6) of the section:

“(6) In paragraph (*b*) and paragraph (*c*) of subsection (2) of this section, the reference to yearly means includes, in addition to the yearly means of the person in question, the yearly means of the spouse (if any) of such person, where the spouse is resident with such person.”

(4) Subsection (9) of the section is hereby amended by the substitution of “one thousand two hundred pounds” for “eight hundred pounds”.

(5) The reference to the section in other sections of the Health Act, 1953 (including references thereto contained in the amendments of the Mental Treatment Act, 1945, set out in section 71 of the Health Act, 1953) shall be construed as references to the section as amended by any Act passed after the passing of that Act (including this Act).

##### 2 Amendment of section 279A of Mental Treatment Act, 1945.

**2.**—Section 279A of the Mental Treatment Act, 1945 (being the section inserted in that Act by subsection (11) of section 71 of the Health Act, 1953) is hereby amended by the substitution of “one thousand two hundred pounds” for “eight hundred pounds”.

##### 3 Short title, collective citations and commencement.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Health and Mental Treatment (Amendment) Act, 1966.

(2) The Health Acts, 1947 to 1964, and section 1 of this Act may be cited together as the Health Acts, 1947 to 1966.

(3) The Mental Treatment Acts, 1945 to 1961, and section 2 of this Act may be cited together as the Mental Treatment Acts, 1945 to 1966.

(4) This Act shall come into operation on such day as the Minister for Health appoints by order.
