---
title: "Finance (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act , 1945"
identifier: "IE-1945-act-35"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1945-12-20"
last_updated: "1945-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1945/act/35"
title_ga: "An tAcht Airgeadais (Forála Ilghnéitheacha), 1945"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1945/35"
---
# Finance (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act , 1945

##### 1 Local authority.

**1.**—In this Act, the expression “local authority” means any body being—

(*a*) the council of a county, or

(*b*) the corporation of a county or other borough, or

(*c*) the council of an urban district.

##### 2 Investment of moneys of the Post Office Savings Bank.

**2.**—(1) In addition to any other statutory powers of investing moneys of the Bank, the said moneys may be invested in any one or more of the stocks to which this section applies.

(2) In this section—

the expression “the Bank” means the Post Office Savings Bank;

the expression “stocks to which this section applies” means stocks or securities (being stocks or securities in which a trustee is by the law for the time being in force authorised to invest trust funds) of a local authority.

##### 3 Power to make loans out of the local loans fund to local authorities for the purpose of repaying loans obtained by the issue of stock.

**3.**—(1) Where the Minister for Local Government and Public Health consents to a local authority borrowing money for the purpose of redeeming any stock of that local authority on or after the first redemption date, a loan may, at the discretion of the Minister for Finance, be made out of the local loans fund for the purpose of such redemption.

(2) The Local Loans Fund Acts, 1935 to 1940, and this section may be cited together as the Local Loans Fund Acts, 1935 to 1945.

##### 4 Short title.

**4.**—This Act may be cited as the Finance (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1945.
