---
title: "Clerk of Seanad Éireann (Compensation) Act , 1939"
identifier: "IE-1939-act-16"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1939-07-14"
last_updated: "1939-07-14"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1939/act/16"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Chléireach Sheanad Éireann (Cúiteamh), 1939"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1939/16"
---
# Clerk of Seanad Éireann (Compensation) Act , 1939

##### 1 Power to grant special compensation to Clerk of former Seanad.

**1.**—(1) In this section the expression “Seanad Eireann” means the House which was, under that name, one of the Houses of the Oireachtas of Saorstát Eireann prior to the passing of the Constitution (Amendment No. 24) Act, 1936 (No. 18 of 1936).

(2) The Minister for Finance may grant a special compensation allowance to the person who held the office of Clerk of Seanad Eireann immediately before the passing of the Constitution (Amendment No. 24) Act, 1936 (No. 18 of 1936), and was subsequently removed from the public service by the Executive Council of Saorstát Eireann in consequence of the passing of that Act.

(3) A special compensation allowance granted under this section shall be calculated in accordance with section 1 of the Superannuation Act, 1909, save that, for the purpose of determining the service which may be reckoned for the purpose of calculating such allowance, an addition of years (not exceeding ten) shall, if the Minister for Finance so thinks fit and so directs, be added to the service of the person to whom such allowance is granted.

(4) A special compensation allowance granted under this Act to a person shall be payable as from the date on which he was removed from the public service and shall be in substitution for any compensation or retiring allowance awarded to such person prior to the passing of this Act.

(5) In the event of any other compensation allowance or pension payable out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas being granted to a person to whom a special compensation allowance has been granted under this Act, such special compensation allowance shall be reduced by the amount of the said other compensation allowance or pension as from the effective date of commencement of payment of that other compensation allowance or pension.

##### 2 Application of the Superannuation Acts, 1834 to 1936.

**2.**—Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Superannuation Acts, 1834 to 1936, shall apply to a special compensation allowance under this Act in like manner as those Acts apply to awards of compensation allowance or superannuation allowance made thereunder.

##### 3 Expenses.

**3.**—The expenses incurred in the administration of this Act shall, to such extent as may be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

##### 4 Short title.

**4.**—This Act may be cited as the Clerk of Seanad Eireann (Compensation) Act, 1939.
