---
title: "Intoxicating Liquor (National Concert Hall) Act , 1983"
identifier: "IE-1983-act-34"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1983-12-13"
last_updated: "1983-12-13"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1983/act/34"
title_ga: "An tAcht Deochanna Meisciúla (An Ceoláras Náisiúnta), 1983"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1983/34"
---
# Intoxicating Liquor (National Concert Hall) Act , 1983

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Acts” means the Licensing Acts, 1833 to 1981;

“the Company” means the National Concert Hall Company;

“the Concert Hall” means the premises known as the National Concert Hall and situated at Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin;

“function” means a concert or conference at the Concert Hall to which persons are admitted upon payment or by invitation, and, where a function extends over more than one day, the part of the function held on any day shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Act, to be a separate function.

##### 2 Licence for sale of intoxicating liquor at Concert Hall.

**2.**—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Acts, the Revenue Commissioners shall, on application to them by the Company, grant to the Company, or a person nominated by it, a licence for the sale of intoxicating liquor at the Concert Hall.

(2) A licence under this section shall operate, during such time as the Concert Hall is occupied by the Company, to authorise, during the period beginning 30 minutes before the commencement of a function and ending one hour after its conclusion, but during no other period, the sale of intoxicating liquor at the Concert Hall, for consumption therein, to persons attending or taking part in the function and persons employed at the Concert Hall.

(3) A person who sells intoxicating liquor at the Concert Hall otherwise than in accordance with a licence under this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable, on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding £500.

(4) Upon the grant of a licence under this section, any licence under the Acts relating to the Concert Hall shall cease to have effect.

##### 3 Restriction of certain provisions of Licensing Acts, 1833 to 1981.

**3.**—Sections 4 and 5 and Part III of the Intoxicating Liquor Act, 1927, section 11 of the Intoxicating Liquor Act, 1962, and the provisions, in relation to prohibited hours, of the Acts shall not apply in relation to the Concert Hall.

##### 4 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Intoxicating Liquor (National Concert Hall) Act, 1983.

(2) The Acts and this Act may be cited together as the Licensing Acts, 1833 to 1983, and shall be construed together as one.
