---
title: "Trade Loans (Guarantee)(Amendment) Act , 1926"
identifier: "IE-1926-act-33"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1926-07-17"
last_updated: "1926-07-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1926/act/33"
title_ga: "An tAcht Iasachtaí Trádála (Urraíocht)(Leasú), 1926"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1926/33"
---
# Trade Loans (Guarantee)(Amendment) Act , 1926

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Act, 1924 (No. 41 of 1924).

##### 2 Extension of time for guarantee under Principal Act.

**2.**—(1) Sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Trade Loans (Guarantee) (Amendment) Act, 1925 (No. 19 of 1925), is hereby repealed and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that no guarantee shall be given under section 1 of the Principal Act after the 31st day of July, 1927.

(2) Sub-section (2) of section 2 of the said Trade Loans (Guarantee) (Amendment) Act, 1925, is hereby repealed, and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that no loan shall be granted and no guarantee shall be given under section 2 of the Principal Act after the 31st day of July, 1927.

##### 3 Amendments of Principal Act in respect of the aggregate amounts in the case of guarantees and loans.

**3.**—The Principal Act shall be construed and have effect as if—

(*a*) sub-section (2) of section 1 thereof were amended as follows, that is to say, by the deletion of the words “seven hundred and fifty” and the insertion in lieu of the words so deleted of the words “nine hundred,” and

(*b*) sub-section (2) of section 2 thereof were amended as follows, that is to say, by the deletion of the words “two hundred and fifty” and the insertion in lieu of the words so deleted of the words “one hundred.”

##### 4 Short Title and citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Trade Loans (Guarantee) (Amendment) Act, 1926.

(2) The Principal Act, the Trade Loans (Guarantee) (Amendment) Act, 1925, and this Act may be cited together as the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Acts, 1924 to 1926.
