---
title: "Turf Development Act , 1983"
identifier: "IE-1983-act-26"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1983-07-19"
last_updated: "1983-07-19"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1983/act/26"
title_ga: "An tAcht Forbartha Móna, 1983"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1983/26"
---
# Turf Development Act , 1983

##### 1 Amendment of section 1 of Turf Development Act, 1957.

**1.**—Section 1 of the Turf Development Act, 1957 (which relates to certain borrowing powers of the Board) is hereby amended by the substitution in subsection (4) of “one hundred and eighty million pounds” for “one hundred million pounds” (inserted by the Turf Development Act, 1980), and that subsection, as so amended, is set out in the Table to this section.

TABLE

(4) The total of the sums advanced to the Board under section 53 of the Turf Development Act, 1946 (No. 10 of 1946), and any moneys borrowed under this section shall not exceed £180,000,000.

##### 2 Board's capital commitments.

**2.**—(1) The Board shall not, without the approval of the Minister given with the consent of the Minister for Finance, enter into a capital commitment the amount of which exceeds an amount specified for the time being for the purpose of this section and relating to the commitment.

(2) The Minister may from time to time, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, specify amounts for the purposes of this section and such an amount may be so specified in relation to capital commitments generally or in relation to capital commitments of a particular class or description.

##### 3 Board to make available to certain persons results of its experiments and researches.

**3.**—(1) Subject to *subsection (4)* of this section, where a person to whom this section applies requests the Board to make available to him any information obtained as the result of experiments and researches of a kind referred to in section 19 of the Turf Development Act, 1946, and conducted by the Board which are of a particular class or description specified by him, the Board shall, as soon as may be, comply with the request.

(2) This section applies to a person who is developing a bog for the production of turf or turf products for fuel or who is entitled to apply to the Board for a development grant.

(3) The Board shall from time to time, with the approval of the Minister, determine the policy to be followed by it in giving information under this section.

(4) Nothing in this section shall be construed as requiring the Board to give information to a person the giving of which would—

(*a*) in the opinion of the Board, prejudice its commercial interests, or

(*b*) contravene policy which for the time being stands determined pursuant to *subsection (3)* of this section.

(5) Section 19 of the Turf Development Act, 1946, shall be construed and have effect subject to the provisions of this section.

##### 4 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Turf Development Act, 1983.

(2) The Turf Development Acts, 1946 to 1981, and this Act shall be construed together as one Act and may be cited together as the Turf Development Acts, 1946 to 1983.
