---
title: "Tourist Traffic Act , 1970"
identifier: "IE-1970-act-16"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1970-08-05"
last_updated: "1970-08-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1970/act/16"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Thrácht Cuartaíochta, 1970"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1970/16"
---
# Tourist Traffic Act , 1970

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act—

“the Act of 1952” means the Tourist Traffic Act, 1952;

“the Act of 1966” means the Tourist Traffic Act, 1966.

(2) For the purposes of the Tourist Traffic Acts, 1939 to 1970, “holiday cottage” shall include a holiday house, a holiday home and a holiday villa.

##### 2 Increase of certain non-repayable grants to Bord Fáilte Éireann.

**2.**—The aggregate amount of the sums that the Minister for Transport and Power may pay to Bord Fáilte Éireann for the purpose of the giving of grants by Bord Fáilte Éireann for the development of holiday accommodation shall not exceed £11,000,000 and, accordingly, section 2 (1) (*b*) of the Tourist Traffic Act, 1959, shall be construed as if that sum were substituted for the sum of £5,500,000 mentioned therein and inserted by section 2 of the Tourist Traffic Act, 1968.

##### 3 Increase of aggregate amount of guarantees under Part III of Act of 1952.

**3.**—Section 18 of the Act of 1952 is hereby amended by the substitution of “eight million pounds” for “five million pounds” in subsection (1) (inserted by section 3 of the Tourist Traffic Act, 1961).

##### 4 Extension of time limit on giving of guarantees under Part III of Act of 1952.

**4.**—Section 21 of the Act of 1952 is hereby amended by the substitution of “twenty-five years from the passing of this Act” for “twenty years from the passing of this Act” (inserted by section 5 of the Act of 1966).

##### 5 Amendment of section 5 of Act of 1952.

**5.**—Section 5 (2) (*a*) of the Act of 1952 is hereby amended by the insertion after “camping sites,” (inserted by section 2 (2) of the Act of 1966) of “approved holiday cottages,”.

##### 6 Amendment of Tourist Traffic Act, 1939.

**6.**—The Tourist Traffic Act, 1939, is hereby amended—

(*a*) by the substitution in section 4 (3) (which relates to the number of members of Bord Fáilte Éireann) of “nine” for “seven” (inserted by section 16 of the Act of 1952),

(*b*) by the insertion after section 24 (1) (*g*) (inserted by section 2 (1) (*b*) of the Act of 1966) of the following—

“(*h*) a register to be called and known and in this Act referred to as the register of approved holiday cottages.”,

(*c*) by the insertion after section 25 (*g*) (inserted by section 2 (1) (*c*) of the Act of 1966) of the following—

“(*h*) the general character, the type of accommodation and services provided, and the other qualifications which shall be requisite in respect of any premises in order that such premises may be eligible for registration in the register of approved holiday cottages.”,

(*d*) by the insertion after section 37B (inserted by section 2 (1) (*e*) of the Act of 1966) of the following section:

“37C. (1) It shall not be lawful for the proprietor or occupier of any premises to describe or hold out or permit any person to describe or hold out such premises as an approved holiday cottage, approved holiday house, approved holiday home or approved holiday villa, or as being of any other description prescribed for the purposes of this section, unless the premises are registered in the register of approved holiday cottages and such proprietor or occupier is registered in that register as the registered proprietor of such premises.

(2) Any person who acts in contravention of this section shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty pounds together with, in the case of a continuing offence, a further fine not exceeding two pounds for every day during which the offence is continued.

(3) This section shall come into operation on such day as may be appointed in that behalf by order of the Minister.”,

and

(*e*) by the insertion in section 45 (1) after “camping sites,” (inserted by section 2 (1) (*f*) of the Act of 1966) of “premises registered in the register of approved holiday cottages,”.

##### 7 Short title and collective citation.

**7.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Tourist Traffic Act, 1970.

(2) The Tourist Traffic Acts, 1939 to 1968, and this Act may be cited together as the Tourist Traffic Acts, 1939 to 1970.
