---
title: "Turf Development Act , 1950"
identifier: "IE-1950-act-23"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1950-07-26"
last_updated: "1950-07-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1950/act/23"
title_ga: "An tAcht Forbartha Móna, 1950"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1950/23"
---
# Turf Development Act , 1950

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act, the expression “the Principal Act” means the Turf Development Act, 1946 (No. 10 of 1946).

##### 2 Grants to the Board in respect of expenses of experimental and research work.

**2.**—Section 52 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution of the following subsections for subsections (1) and (2):

“(1) Subject to the limitation imposed by subsection (2) of this section, the Minister may pay to the Board from time to time, out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas, grants, towards the expenses incurred by the Board under section 19 (which relates to experimental and research work by the Board in relation to turf and turf products) of this Act, of such amounts as the Minister, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, may fix.

(2) The total amount of grants to be made under this section shall not exceed the sum of two hundred and fifty thousand pounds.”

##### 3 Advances to the Board out of the Central Fund.

**3.**—Section 53 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution of the following subsection for subsection (1):

“(1) For the purpose of enabling the Board to exercise or perform its functions, the Minister for Finance may, under this section and on the recommendation of the Minister, advance from time to time to the Board, out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof, such sums (not exceeding in the aggregate eight million two hundred and seventy thousand pounds) as the Board may from time to time request.”

##### 4 Waiver of interest on certain advances to the Board.

**4.**—Section 57 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution of the following subsection for subsection (1):

“(1) The following provisions shall apply in respect of advances made to the Board under section 53 of this Act:

(*a*) no interest shall be payable by the Board on advances made during the period of five years commencing on the 21st day of June, 1946, in relation to the Board's first turf development programme (in this subsection referred to as first programme advances) in respect of any period preceding the day on which the Minister for Finance makes an order under paragraph (*b*) of this subsection,

(*b*) the Minister for Finance shall, immediately after the period of five years referred to in paragraph (*a*) of this subsection, examine the finances of the Board and shall then, having regard to the existing state of the finances of the Board and its future financial prospects, either—

(i) by order (in subsection (3) of this section referred to as the exemption order) exempt the Board from the liability to pay interest on first programme advances in respect of the period during which the order is in force, or

(ii) by order declare the Board liable to pay interest on first programme advances in respect of any period commencing on or after the day on which the order is made,

(*c*) no interest shall be payable by the Board on advances made during the period of five years commencing on the 1st day of July, 1950, in relation to the Board's second turf development programme (in this subsection referred to as second programme advances) in respect of any period preceding the day on which the Minister for Finance makes an order under paragraph (*d*) of this subsection,

(*d*) the Minister for Finance shall, immediately after the period of five years referred to in paragraph (*c*) of this subsection, examine the finances of the Board and shall then, having regard to the existing state of the finances of the Board and its future financial prospects, either—

(i) by order (in subsection (3) of this section referred to as the exemption order) exempt the Board from the liability to pay interest on second programme advances in respect of the period during which the order is in force, or

(ii) by order declare the Board liable to pay interest on second programme advances in respect of any period commencing on or after the day on which the order is made,

(*e*) where an order is made as aforesaid exempting the Board from the liability to pay interest on first or second programme advances, the Minister for Finance may at any time thereafter revoke it by a further order.”

##### 5 Houses for servants of the Board.

**5.**—(1) The Board may from time to time submit to the Minister schemes for the building by the Board of houses for occupation by servants of the Board.

(2) The Minister may, if he so thinks proper, approve of a scheme submitted under this section and thereupon the Board may carry out such scheme.

(3) The Board may let houses built pursuant to a scheme under this section to servants of the Board.

(4) The Local Government (Rates on Small Dwellings) Act, 1928 (No. 4 of 1928), shall not apply in relation to a house built pursuant to a scheme under this section.

(5) A grant shall not be made under the Housing (Amendment) Act, 1948 (No. 1 of 1948), in respect of a house built pursuant to a scheme under this section.

##### 6 Grants and advances to the Board towards expenses under schemes under Section 5 of this Act.

**6.**—(1) Subject to the limitations imposed by subsection (2) of this section, the Minister may pay to the Board from time to time, out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas, grants, towards the expenses incurred by the Board under any schemes under section 5 of this Act, of such amounts as the Minister, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, may fix.

(2) The grants to be made under subsection (1) of this section shall be subject to the following limitations:

(*a*) the total amount thereof shall not exceed three hundred and sixty thousand pounds,

(*b*) a grant in relation to any particular house shall not exceed one hundred and eighty pounds.

(3) Subject to the limitation imposed by subsection (4) of this section, the Minister for Finance may, on the recommendation of the Minister, make to the Board from time to time, out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof, repayable advances towards the expenses incurred by the Board under any schemes under section 5 of this Act.

(4) The total amount of the advances to be made under subsection (3) of this section shall not exceed six hundred and eighty thousand pounds.

(5) The provisions of sections 54, 55 and 56 of the Principal Act (except the saver in subsection (1) of section 55 for section 57 of the Principal Act) shall apply in relation to advances under subsection (3) of this section, and for the purposes of such application the references in those sections to section 53 of the Principal Act shall have effect as references to subsection (3) of this section.

##### 7 Construction of Principal Act and this Act.

**7.**—(1) The Principal Act and this Act shall be construed together as one Act.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1) of this section, a reference in the Principal Act to that Act shall, save where the context otherwise requires, be construed as including a reference to this Act.

##### 8 Short title and collective citation.

**8.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Turf Development Act, 1950.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Turf Development Acts, 1946 and 1950.
