---
title: "Unemployment Insurance Act , 1933"
identifier: "IE-1933-act-44"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1933-11-16"
last_updated: "1933-11-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1933/act/44"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Árachas Díomhaointis, 1933"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1933/44"
---
# Unemployment Insurance Act , 1933

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “the Principal Act” means the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920;

the expression “the Act of 1930” means the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1930 (No. 33 of 1930).

##### 2 Alteration of rates of contribution.

**2.**—(1) The contributions payable under the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1930, in respect of employed persons by those persons and their employers respectively shall, in lieu of the rates fixed by section 2 of the Act of 1930, be at the rates set out in the Schedule to this Act.

(2) The contribution to be made for the purposes of section 5 of the Principal Act out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas shall, in lieu of the rate fixed by section 2 of the Act of 1930, be at a rate equal to two-sevenths of the aggregate amount of the contributions paid in respect of the employed person by himself and his employer or, in the case of an exempt person, paid by his employer, and sub-sections (3) and (7) of the said section 5 shall have effect accordingly.

##### 3 Amendment of section 12 of the Principal Act.

**3.**—Section 3 of the Act of 1930 is hereby repealed and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that the proviso to sub-section (3) of section 12 of the Principal Act shall be construed and have effect as if for the word “one-tenth” now contained therein there were inserted the word “three-twentieths.”

##### 4 Advances by Minister for Finance.

**4.**—(1) The Minister for Finance may out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof advance any sums required for the purpose of discharging the liabilities of the Unemployment Fund under the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1930, as amended by this Act, and under any Act passed or to be passed before the 31st day of March, 1934 to provide for the relief of unemployed persons and to make such financial and other provisions as may be required for that purpose, and for the purpose of providing the sums to be so advanced the Minister for Finance may borrow money in such manner as he may think proper.

(2) Any sums advanced under the foregoing sub-section together with any interest thereon (if any) at such rate as may be fixed by the Minister for Finance shall be charged on and be repayable out of the Unemployment Fund.

(3) The principal and interest of any securities issued by the Minister for Finance for the purpose of borrowing under this section and the expenses incurred in connection with the issue of such securities shall be charged on the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof.

##### 5 Short title, construction, citation and commencement.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1933.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1930, and those Acts and this Act may be cited together as the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1933.

(3) This Act shall come into operation on the 1st day of April, 1934.

## SCHEDULE. Rates of Contribution by Employed Persons and Employers.

PART I.

| 1. From the employed person, for each week— |  |
| --- | --- |
| in the case of men | 9d. |
| in the case of women | 7d. |
| 2. From the employer, for each week— |  |
| in the case of an employed person who is a man | 10d. |
| in the case of an employed person who is a woman. | 8d. |

PART II.

| 1. From the employed person, for each week— |  |
| --- | --- |
| in the case of boys | 4d. |
| in the case of girls | 4d. |
| 2. From the employer, for each week— |  |
| in the case of an employed person who is a boy | 5d. |
| in the case of an employed person who is a girl | 4d. |
