---
title: "Unemployment Insurance Act , 1943"
identifier: "IE-1943-act-20"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1943-06-02"
last_updated: "1943-06-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1943/act/20"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Árachas Díomhaointis, 1943"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1943/20"
---
# Unemployment Insurance Act , 1943

##### 1 Amendment of sub-section (4) of section 8 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, in respect of certain persons leaving the State during the emergency period.

**1.**—(1) Where—

(*a*) a person has (whether before or after the passing of this Act) left the State for employment during the emergency period, and

(*b*) such person has returned to the State at any time not later than twelve months after the expiration of the emergency period,

then, so far as relates to any claim for unemployment benefit made by him after the date of the passing of this Act, any insurance year commencing subsequent to the 3rd day of September, 1939, during the whole or any part of which he is absent from the State and during which no contribution is paid in respect of him shall be disregarded in the application to him of sub-section (4) of section 8 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1920, as amended by the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1926 (No. 21 of 1926).

(2) In this section, the expression “the emergency period” means the period which commenced on the date of the passing of the Emergency Powers Act, 1939 (No. 28 of 1939), and ends on the expiration of the said Act.

##### 2 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**2.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1943.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1941, and those Acts and this Act may be cited together as the Unemployment Insurance Acts, 1920 to 1943.
