---
title: "Local Authorities (Mutual Assurance) Act , 1935"
identifier: "IE-1935-act-42"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1935-11-28"
last_updated: "1935-11-28"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1935/act/42"
title_ga: "Acht na nÚdarás nÁitiúil (Comhar-Árachas), 1935"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1935/42"
---
# Local Authorities (Mutual Assurance) Act , 1935

##### 1 Definition.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Acts of 1926 and 1928” means the Local Authorities (Mutual Assurance) Act, 1926 (No. 34 of 1926) and the Local Authorities (Mutual Assurance) Act, 1928 (No. 21 of 1928).

##### 2 Extension of application of the Acts of 1926 and 1928.

**2.**—Every vocational education committee shall be and be deemed always to have been a local authority for the purposes and within the meaning of the Acts of 1926 and 1928, and those Acts shall apply and be deemed always to have applied to vocational education committees accordingly.

##### 3 Extension by order of expression “local authority”.

**3.**—(1) The Minister for Local Government and Public Health may by order declare that any local body, authority or board named and described in such order shall be a local authority for the purposes and within the meaning of the Acts of 1926 and 1928.

(2) Whenever the Minister for Local Government and Public Health makes an order under the next preceding sub-section of this section, the local body, authority, or board named and described in such order shall, while such order remains in force and subject to any amendment thereof, be a local authority for the purposes and within the meaning of the Acts of 1926 and 1928 and, accordingly, those Acts shall apply to every such body, authority, or board.

(3) The Minister for Local Government and Public Health may at any time by order revoke or amend any order previously made by him under this section, including an order made under this sub-section.

##### 4 Short title and citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Local Authorities (Mutual Assurance) Act, 1935.

(2) The Acts of 1926 and 1928 and this Act may be cited together as the Local Authorities (Mutual Assurance) Acts, 1926 to 1935.
