---
title: "Industrial Grants (Amendment) Act , 1969"
identifier: "IE-1969-act-8"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1969-04-29"
last_updated: "1969-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1969/act/8"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Dheontais Tionscail (Leasú), 1969"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1969/8"
---
# Industrial Grants (Amendment) Act , 1969

##### 1 Amount of grants by An Foras Tionscal.

**1.**—(1) The aggregate amount of grants made by the Industrial Development Authority under the Industrial Grants Act, 1956, and of grants (other than grants under section 12 of the Undeveloped Areas Act, 1952) made by An Foras Tionscal and the Minister for Industry and Commerce under the Undeveloped Areas Acts, 1952 to 1968, and the Industrial Grants Acts, 1959 to 1968, and of payments made by An Foras Tionscal and the said Minister on foot of guarantees given by An Foras Tionscal and the said Minister under the Industrial Grants Act, 1959, shall not exceed fifty million pounds.

(2) The aggregate amount of grants under section 12 of the Undeveloped Areas Act, 1952, and section 3 of the Industrial Grants Act, 1956, shall not exceed fifty million pounds.

##### 2 Repeals.

**2.**—Section 3 of the Industrial Grants (Amendment) Act, 1966, and section 1 of the Industrial Grants (Amendment) (No. 2) Act, 1968, are hereby repealed.

##### 3 Short title and collective citations.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Industrial Grants (Amendment) Act, 1969.

(2) The Undeveloped Areas Acts, 1952 to 1968, and this Act (in so far as it amends those Acts) may be cited together as the Undeveloped Areas Acts, 1952 to 1969, and the Industrial Grants Acts, 1959 to 1968, and this Act (in so far as it amends those Acts) may be cited together as the Industrial Grants Acts, 1959 to 1969.
