---
title: "Agricultural Workers (Holidays)(Amendment) Act , 1975"
identifier: "IE-1975-act-7"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1975-05-21"
last_updated: "1975-05-21"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1975/act/7"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Oibrithe Talmhaíochta (Laethanta Saoire)(Leasú), 1975"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1975/7"
---
# Agricultural Workers (Holidays)(Amendment) Act , 1975

##### 1 Amendment of section 3 of Act of 1950.

**1.**—(1) Section 3 of the Act of 1950 is hereby amended by the substitution of the following subsections for subsections (1) and (2) (inserted by the Agricultural Workers (Holidays) (Amendment) Act, 1961):

“(1) In each year an agricultural employer shall allow to an agricultural worker holidays equivalent to three working weeks where the worker is continuously employed by him during that year, and proportionately less where the worker has been so employed for eleven or fewer months.

(2) (*a*) Where the period of continuous employment is not less than two and not more than four months, the holidays to which a worker is entitled under this section shall be allowed on consecutive working days.

(*b*) Where the period of continuous employment is more than four and less than eight months, the holidays to which a worker is entitled under this section shall include an unbroken period equivalent to one working week.

(*c*) Where the period of continuous employment is eight or more months, the holidays to which a worker is entitled under this section shall include an unbroken period equivalent to two working weeks.”

(2) References to the Act of 1950 in any order under section 17 of the Agricultural Wages Act, 1936, and section 5 of the Act of 1950 fixing minimum rates of holiday remuneration in respect of a holiday under the Act of 1950 shall be construed as references to the Act of 1950 as amended by this Act.

(3) In this section “the Act of 1950” means the Agricultural Workers (Holidays) Act, 1950.

##### 2 Amendments of section 4 of Act of 1969.

**2.**—(1) Section 4 (1) of the Act of 1969, which specifies the days which are public holidays for the purposes of that Act, is hereby amended by the insertion after paragraph (*d*) of the following paragraph:

“(*e*) the 1st day of January when it falls on a weekday or, when it falls on a Sunday, the next day.”

(2) The following subsection is hereby inserted after subsection (6) of section 4 of the Act of 1969:

“(6A) The Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries may by regulations appoint a day to be an additional public holiday for the purposes of this Act and, whenever any such regulations are in force, the day appointed shall be an additional public holiday for the purposes of this Act.”

(3) In this section “the Act of 1969” means the Agricultural Workers (Holidays and Wages) Act, 1969.

##### 3 Short title, construction, collective citation and commencement.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Agricultural Workers (Holidays) (Amendment) Act, 1975.

(2) The Agricultural Workers Holidays Acts, 1950 to 1969, and this Act shall be construed together as one Act and may be cited together as the Agricultural Workers Holidays Acts, 1950 to 1975.

(3) This Act shall come into operation on such day as the Minister may by order appoint.
