---
title: "Presidential Establishment (Amendment) Act , 1973"
identifier: "IE-1973-act-18"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1973-08-01"
last_updated: "1973-08-01"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1973/act/18"
title_ga: "Acht Teaghlachas an Uachtaráin (Leasú), 1973"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1973/18"
---
# Presidential Establishment (Amendment) Act , 1973

##### 1 Definition.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Presidential Establishment Act, 1938.

##### 2 Amendment of section 1 of Principal Act.

**2.**—Section 1 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution for subsection (1) (inserted by the Presidential Establishment (Amendment) Act, 1947) of the following subsection:

“(1) The emoluments and allowances to be received by the President in pursuance of section. 11 of Article 12 of the Constitution shall consist of—

(*a*) a sum at the rate of £15,000 per annum, and

(*b*) a sum the rate per annum of which at any time shall be equal to the rate per annum at that time of the remuneration of the Chief Justice increased by ten per cent.,

and the last-mentioned sum shall be the personal remuneration of the President.”.

##### 3 Amendment of section 3 of Principal Act.

**3.**—Section 3 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution for subsection (1) of the following subsection:

“(1) A pension shall be granted by the Government to every person who, having held the office of President, ceases to hold that office for any reason other than death or removal from office under section 10 of Article 12 of the Constitution, and the rate per annum of the pension at any time shall be equal to one-half of the rate per annum at that time of the personal remuneration of the President.”.

##### 4 Amendment of section 4 of Principal Act.

**4.**—Section 4 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution for subsection (1) of the following subsection:

“(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, a pension shall be granted by the Government to the widow of any person who—

(*a*) died while holding the office of President, or

(*b*) died while in receipt of a pension granted under section 3 of this Act, or

(*c*) was, immediately before his death, entitled to be granted but was not actually granted a pension under that section,

and the rate per annum of the pension at any time shall be equal to one-quarter of the rate per annum at that time of the personal remuneration of the President.”.

##### 5 Short title and collective citation.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Presidential Establishment (Amendment) Act, 1973.

(2) The Presidential Establishment Acts, 1938 and 1947, and this Act may be cited together as the Presidential Establishment Acts, 1938 to 1973.
