---
title: "European Communities (Amendment) Act , 1973"
identifier: "IE-1973-act-20"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1973-08-04"
last_updated: "1973-08-04"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1973/act/20"
title_ga: "Acht na gComhphobal Eorpach (Leasú), 1973"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1973/20"
---
# European Communities (Amendment) Act , 1973

##### 1 Amendment of European Communities Act, 1972.

**1.**—(1) The European Communities Act, 1972, is hereby amended by the substitution for section 4 of the following section:

“(1) (*a*) Regulations under this Act shall have statutory effect.

(*b*) If the Joint Committee on the Secondary Legislation of the European Communities recommends to the Houses of the Oireachtas that any regulations under this Act be annulled and a resolution annulling the regulations is passed by both such Houses within one year after the regulations are made, the regulations shall be annulled accordingly and shall cease to have statutory effect, but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.

(2) (*a*) If when regulations under this Act are made, or at any time within one year thereafter and while the regulations have statutory effect, Dáil Éireann stands adjourned for a period of more than ten days and if, during the adjournment, at least one-third of the members of Dáil Éireann by notice in writing to the Ceann Comhairle require Dáil Éireann to be summoned, the Ceann Comhairle shall summon Dáil Éireann to meet on a day named by him being neither more than twenty-one days after the receipt by him of the notice nor less than ten days after the issue of the summons.

(*b*) If when regulations under this Act are made, or at any time within one year thereafter and while the regulations have statutory effect, Seanad Éireann stands adjourned for a period of more than ten days and if, during the adjournment, at least one-third of the members of Seanad Éireann by notice in writing to the Cathaoirleach require Seanad Éireann to be summoned, the Cathaoirleach shall summon Seanad Éireann to meet on a day named by him being neither more than twenty-one days after the receipt by him of the notice nor less than ten days after the issue of the summons.

(*c*) Paragraphs (*a*) and (*b*) of this subsection shall not apply to regulations in relation to which a resolution for their annulment has been refused by either House of the Oireachtas.”

(2) This section shall have effect in relation to regulations under the European Communities Act, 1972, other than regulations confirmed by the European Communities (Confirmation of Regulations) Act, 1973, and regulations that ceased to have statutory effect before the passing of this Act.

##### 2 Short title.

**2.**—This Act may be cited as the European Communities (Amendment) Act, 1973.
