---
title: "Supplies and Services (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1946 (Continuance and Amendment) Act , 1950"
identifier: "IE-1950-act-34"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1950-12-27"
last_updated: "1950-12-27"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1950/act/34"
title_ga: "An tAcht um an Acht Soláthairtí agus Seirbhísí (Forála Sealadacha), 1946 (Buanú agus Leasú), 1950"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1950/34"
---
# Supplies and Services (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1946 (Continuance and Amendment) Act , 1950

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act, the expression “the Principal Act” means the Supplies and Services (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1946 (No. 22 of 1946).

##### 2 Continuance of the Principal Act.

**2.**—(1) The Principal Act shall, unless previously terminated under subsection (2) of this section, continue in force until the 31st day of December, 1951.

(2) The Government may by order declare that the Principal Act shall expire on a specified date, being earlier than the 31st day of December, 1951, and in that case the Principal Act shall expire accordingly.

##### 3 Advisory bodies.

**3.**—A Minister may from time to time by order provide for the establishment and constitution of bodies of persons to advise him in relation to all or any of the powers conferred on or delegated to him by virtue of the Principal Act and any such order may contain such ancillary and supplementary provisions as the Minister thinks proper.

##### 4 Repeal.

**4.**—The Supplies and Services (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1946 (Continuance) Act, 1949 (No. 31 of 1949), is hereby repealed.

##### 5 Short title and construction.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Supplies and Services (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1946 (Continuance and Amendment) Act, 1950.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act shall be construed together as one Act.
