---
title: "Local Government (Rates on Agricultural Land) Act , 1931"
identifier: "IE-1931-act-28"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1931-07-29"
last_updated: "1931-07-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1931/act/28"
title_ga: "An tAcht Rialtais Áitiúla (Rátaí ar Thalamh Thalmhaíochta), 1931"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1931/28"
---
# Local Government (Rates on Agricultural Land) Act , 1931

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Local Government (Rates on Agricultural Land) Act, 1925 (No. 35 of 1925); and

the expressions “agricultural grant” and “supplementary grant” have the same meanings as they respectively have in the Principal Act.

##### 2 Additional increase of the agricultural grant.

**2.**—(1) The Minister for Finance shall, in the financial year beginning on the 1st day of April, 1931, and in every subsequent financial year, make, by way of increase of the agricultural grant over and above the supplementary grant under the Principal Act, a grant (in this Act referred to as the additional supplementary grant) of £750,000 (seven hundred and fifty thousand pounds) to be provided for the purpose in such financial year by the Oireachtas.

(2) The additional supplementary grant shall be payable to the councils of the several counties (other than county boroughs) and shall be apportioned amongst such councils as follows, that is to say:—

(*a*) as to one moiety of the said grant, in proportion to the respective populations of the several counties according to the census taken in the year 1926, and

(*b*) as to the other moiety of the said grant, in the same proportions as the portion of agricultural grant payable to the councils of counties (other than county boroughs) is apportionable amongst such councils.

(3) The Principal Act shall apply to the additional supplementary grant in like manner as it applies to the supplementary grant subject to the following modifications, that is to say:—

(*a*) the 1st day of April, 1931, shall be substituted for the 1st day of April, 1925, the 1st day of January, 1932, shall be substituted for the 1st day of January, 1926, and the 31st day of March, 1932, shall be substituted for the 31st day of March, 1926;

(*b*) references to county borough councils shall be omitted;

(*c*) the expression “this Act” wherever it occurs in section 7 of the Principal Act shall be construed as referring to this present Act.

##### 3 Short title.

**3.**—This Act may be cited as the Local Government (Rates on Agricultural Land) Act, 1931.
