---
title: "Social Welfare (Temporary Provisions) Act , 1980"
identifier: "IE-1980-act-29"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1980-11-25"
last_updated: "1980-11-25"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1980/act/29"
title_ga: "An tAcht Leasa Shóisialaigh (Forálacha Sealadacha), 1980"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1980/29"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Social Welfare (Temporary Provisions) Act , 1980

##### 1 Increase of pensions under Old Age Pensions Acts, 1908 to 1980, for week commencing 12th December, 1980.

**1.**—Where a person is or becomes entitled to payment of a pension under the Old Age Pensions Acts, 1908 to 1980, in respect of the week commencing on the 12th day of December, 1980, any amount payable to him by way of that pension (including any increases) for that week shall be increased by a sum equal to that amount.

##### 2 Increase of pensions under Widows' and Orphans' Pensions Acts, 1935 to 1980, for week commencing 12th December, 1980.

**2.**—(1) Where a person is or becomes entitled to payment of a widow's (non-contributory) pension under the Widows' and Orphans' Pensions Acts, 1935 to 1980, in respect of the week commencing on the 12th day of December, 1980, any amount payable to her by way of that pension (including any increases) for that week shall be increased by a sum equal to that amount.

(2) Where a person is or becomes entitled to payment of orphan's (non-contributory) pension under the Widows' and Orphans' Pensions Acts, 1935 to 1980, in respect of the week commencing on the 12th day of December, 1980, any amount payable to him by way of that pension for that week shall be increased by a sum equal to that amount.

##### 3 Increase of pensions, deserted wife's benefit and certain allowances under Social Welfare Acts, 1952 to 1980, for week commencing 11th or 12th December, 1980.

**3.**—Where a person is or becomes entitled to payment of the following benefit or any of the following pensions or allowances under the Social Welfare Acts, 1952 to 1980—

(*a*) old age (contributory) pension,

(*b*) invalidity pension,

(*c*) retirement pension,

(*d*) widow's (contributory) pension,

(*e*) deserted wife's benefit,

(*f*) orphan's (contributory) allowance,

(*g*) deserted wife's allowance,

(*h*) prisoner's wife's allowance,

(*i*) social assistance allowance for unmarried mothers,

(*j*) single woman's allowance,

in respect of the week commencing on the 12th day of December, 1980, in the case of a pension or allowance mentioned in paragraph (*a*), (*d*) or (*f*) of this section, or in respect of the week commencing on the 11th day of December, 1980, in the case of a pension, benefit or allowance mentioned in any other paragraph of this section, any amount payable to him by way of that pension, benefit or allowance (including any increases) for the appropriate week shall be increased by a sum equal to that amount.

##### 4 Increase of disablement pension and death benefit by way of pension under Social Welfare (Occupational Injuries) Act, 1966, for week commencing 12th December, 1980.

**4.**—(1) Where a person is or becomes entitled to payment of disablement pension under the Social Welfare (Occupational Injuries) Act, 1966, in respect of the week commencing on the 12th day of December, 1980, any amount payable to him by way of that pension (including any increases) for that week shall be increased by a sum equal to that amount.

(2) Where a person is or becomes entitled to payment of death benefit under the Social Welfare (Occupational Injuries) Act, 1966, by way of pension for a widow, widower, parent or orphan in respect of the week commencing on the 12th day of December, 1980, any amount payable to him by way of that pension (including any increases) for that week shall be increased by a sum equal to that amount.

##### 5 Short title.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Social Welfare (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1980.
