---
title: "Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) Act , 1962"
identifier: "IE-1962-act-32"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1962-12-25"
last_updated: "1962-12-25"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1962/act/32"
title_ga: "An tAcht um an Oireachtas (Liúntais do Chomhaltaí), 1962"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1962/32"
---
# Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) Act , 1962

##### 1 Overnight allowance.

**1.**—(1) In this section—

“the Dublin area” means such area inclusive of the county borough of Dublin as may be declared by regulations to be for the purposes of this section the Dublin area;

“member to whom this section applies” means a member of Dáil Éireann or Seanad Éireann whose normal place of residence for the time being is not in the Dublin area;

“meeting” means a meeting of—

(*a*) Dáil Éireann or Seanad Éireann, or

(*b*) a committee of Dáil Éireann or Seanad Éireann of which the member to whom this section applies is a member.

(2) Where a member to whom this section applies makes an overnight stay in the Dublin area because—

(*a*) he proposes to attend a meeting next day, or

(*b*) a meeting which he attended terminated too late to allow of his return home on the same day,

he shall be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas an overnight allowance in respect of accommodation of the amount for the time being sanctioned by the Minister for Finance for the purposes of this section.

##### 2 Telephone and postal facilities.

**2.**—The following facilities shall, subject to such exceptions, restrictions and conditions as may be provided for by regulations, be granted to a member of Dáil Éireann or Seanad Éireann:

(*a*) free telephone calls from Leinster House,

(*b*) free postal facilities arising out of his parliamentary duties.

##### 3 Regulations.

**3.**—(1) The Minister for Finance may make regulations for the purposes of this Act.

(2) Every regulation made under this section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made and, if a resolution annulling the regulation is passed by either such House within the next subsequent twenty-one days on which that House has sat after the regulation is laid before it, the regulation shall be annulled accordingly but without prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

##### 4 Short title, commencement and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) Act, 1962.

(2) This Act shall come into operation on the 1st day of January, 1963.

(3) The Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) Acts, 1938 to 1960, and this Act may be cited together as the Oireachtas (Allowances to Members) Acts, 1938 to 1962.
