---
title: "Gas (Amendment) Act , 1982"
identifier: "IE-1982-act-17"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1982-07-21"
last_updated: "1982-07-21"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1982/act/17"
title_ga: "An tAcht Gáis (Leasú), 1982"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1982/17"
---
# Gas (Amendment) Act , 1982

##### 1 Amendment of section 23 of Gas Act, 1976.

**1.**—Section 23 (which relates to certain borrowing powers of the Board) of the Gas Act, 1976, is hereby amended by the substitution in subsection (2) of “£80,000,000” for “£30,000,000” (inserted by the Gas (Amendment) Act, 1980) and that subsection, as so amended, is set out in the Table to this section.

TABLE

(2) The aggregate at any one time either of borrowings under this section, or of such borrowings and any advances under section 22 of this Act, which have not been repaid, shall not exceed £80,000,000.

##### 2 Amendment of section 25 of Gas Act, 1976.

**2.**—Section 25 (which relates to guarantees of borrowings by the Board) of the Gas Act, 1976, is hereby amended by the substitution in subsection (2) of “£80,000,000” for “£30,000,000” (inserted by the Gas (Amendment) Act, 1980) and that subsection, as so amended, is set out in the Table to this section.

TABLE

(2) The Minister for Finance shall not so exercise the powers conferred on him by this section that the amount, or the aggregate amount, of principal which he may at any one time be liable to repay on foot of any guarantee or guarantees under this section for the time being in force, together with the amount of principal (if any) which the said Minister has previously paid on foot of any guarantee under this section and which has not been repaid by the Board, exceeds £80,000,000.

##### 3 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Gas (Amendment) Act, 1982.

(2) The Gas Acts, 1976 and 1980, and this Act shall be construed together as one Act and may be cited together as the Gas Acts, 1976 to 1982.
