---
title: "British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition)(Amendment) Act , 1976"
identifier: "IE-1976-act-12"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1976-04-13"
last_updated: "1976-04-13"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1976/act/12"
title_ga: "An tAcht um an British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Fáil)(Leasú), 1976"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1976/12"
---
# British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition)(Amendment) Act , 1976

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act “the Company” means the British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited.

##### 2 Purchase of additional shares of British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited by Minister for Finance.

**2.**—Section 2 of the British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition) (Amendment) Act, 1971, is hereby amended by the substitution of “eighteen million ordinary shares” for “three million ordinary shares”, and the said section 2, as so amended, is set out in the Table to this section.

TABLE

The Minister for Finance may purchase, in addition to the ordinary shares of the Company purchased by him under the agreement approved of by section 2 of the Principal Act, not more than eighteen million ordinary shares of the Company of £1 each.

##### 3 Chief officer's remuneration etc.

**3.**—There shall be paid by the Company to its chief officer (whether that officer is described as the General Manager or otherwise) such remuneration and allowances as the Company, with the approval of the Minister for Transport and Power given with the consent of the Minister for the Public Service, shall determine.

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition) (Amendment) Act, 1976.

(2) The British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition) Acts, 1965 and 1971, and this Act may be cited together as the British & Irish Steam Packet Company Limited (Acquisition) Acts, 1965 to 1976.
