---
title: "Presidential Elections (Temporary Provisions) Act , 1959"
identifier: "IE-1959-act-9"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1959-05-30"
last_updated: "1959-05-30"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1959/act/9"
title_ga: "Acht Toghchán an Uachtaráin (Forálacha Sealadacha), 1959"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1959/9"
---
# Presidential Elections (Temporary Provisions) Act , 1959

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the principal section” section 34 means of the Presidential Elections Act, 1937;

“the 1959 presidential election” means the presidential election held in the year 1959;

“the 1959 referendum” means the referendum in relation to the Third Amendment of the Constitution Bill, 1958.

##### 2 Amendment of principal section in relation to 1959 presidential election.

**2.**—(1) In applying the principal section to the 1959 presidential election, the reference in subsection (1) thereof to a communication relating only to that election shall be construed as a reference to a communication relating only to that election or relating to that election and to the 1959 referendum.

(2) Where, pursuant to the Presidential Elections Free Postage Regulations, 1959, a declaration falls to be made in a certificate under those Regulations with respect to communications referred to in subsection (1) of this section which relate to the 1959 presidential election and to the 1959 referendum, the declaration may be made, signed and accepted as if the communications did in fact relate only to the 1959 presidential election.

(3) Anything which was effected at any time before the passing of this Act and which would have been proper if this Act had then been in operation shall be and shall be deemed always to have been proper.

##### 3 Short title.

**3.**—This Act may be cited as the Presidential Elections (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1959.
