---
title: "Presidential Establishment (Amendment) Act , 1991"
identifier: "IE-1991-act-10"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1991-05-11"
last_updated: "1991-05-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1991/act/10"
title_ga: "Acht Theaghlachas an Uachtaráin (Leasú), 1991"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1991/10"
---
# Presidential Establishment (Amendment) Act , 1991

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Act of 1973” means the Presidential Establishment (Amendment) Act, 1973;

“the Principal Act” means the Presidential Establishment Act, 1938.

##### 2 Amendment of section 1 of Principal Act.

**2.**—Section 1 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by—

(*a*) the substitution in subsection (1) (inserted by the Act of 1973) of the following paragraph for paragraph (*a*):

“(*a*) a sum at the rate of £100,000 per annum, and”,

and

(*b*) the insertion of the following subsection after subsection (2):

“(3) (*a*) The Government may, whenever they so think fit, by order amend paragraph (*a*) of subsection (1) of this section so as to increase the amount specified therein and that subsection shall have effect in accordance with the latest such order.

(*b*) Every order made under this section shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is made.”.

##### 3 Amendment of section 4 of Principal Act.

**3.**—Section 4 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution of the following subsections for subsection (1) (inserted by the Act of 1973) and subsections (2) and (3):

“(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, a pension shall be granted by the Government to the widow or widower of any person who—

(*a*) died while holding the office of President, or

(*b*) died while in receipt of a pension granted under section 3 of this Act, or

(*c*) was, immediately before his or her death, entitled to be granted but was not actually granted a pension under that section,

and the rate per annum of the pension at any time shall be equal to one-quarter of the rate per annum at that time of the personal remuneration of the President.

(2) A pension shall not be granted under this section to a person who has remarried after the death of the spouse in respect of whose death such a pension could, but for this subsection, be granted.

(3) Every pension granted to a person under this section shall be charged upon and payable out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof to the said person from the date of death of her or his spouse until, in case the person remarries, such remarriage or, in case the person does not remarry, her or his death.”.

##### 4 Short title collective citation and commencement.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Presidential Establishment (Amendment) Act, 1991.

(2) The Presidential Establishment Acts, 1938 to 1973, and this Act may be cited together as the Presidential Establishment Acts, 1938 to 1991.

(3) This Act shall be deemed to have come into operation on the 3rd day of December, 1990.
