---
title: "Fisheries (Consolidation) Act  1953"
identifier: "IE-1953-act-28"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1953-11-24"
last_updated: "1953-11-24"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1953/act/28"
title_ga: "An tAcht Iascaigh (Comhdhlúthú), 1953 "
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1953/28"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Fisheries (Consolidation) Act  1953

##### 1 Act of 1896.

**1.**—In this Act the “Act of 1896” means the Friendly Societies Act, 1896.

##### 2 Amendment of section 8 of Act of 1896.

**2.**—The proviso to paragraph (1) of section 8 of the Act of 1896 is hereby amended by the substitution of “fifty-two pounds” for “fifty pounds” and of “three hundred pounds” for “two hundred pounds”.

##### 3 Amendment of section 56 of Act of 1896.

**3.**—Subsection (1) of section 56 of the Act of 1896 is hereby amended by the substitution of “three hundred pounds” for “one hundred pounds”.

##### 4 Amendment of section 57 of Act of 1896.

**4.**—Section 57 of the Act of 1896 is hereby amended—

(*a*) in subsection (1), by the substitution of “three hundred pounds” for “one hundred pounds”, and

(*b*) by the deletion of subsections (3) and (4).

##### 5 Amendment of section 58 of Act of 1896.

**5.**—Subsection (1) of section 58 of the Act of 1896 is hereby amended by the substitution of “three hundred pounds” for “one hundred pounds” and by the deletion of all words from “subject” to the end of the subsection.

##### 6 Amendment of section 59 of Act of 1896.

**6.**—Section 59 of the Act of 1896 is hereby amended by the substitution of “two thousand pounds” for “one hundred pounds” wherever the latter words occur.

##### 7 Short title and collective citation.

**7.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Friendly Societies (Amendment) Act, 1953.

(2) The Friendly Societies Acts, 1896 to 1936, and this Act may be cited together as the Friendly Societies Acts, 1896 to 1953.
