---
title: "Export Promotion (Amendment)(No. 2) Act , 1983"
identifier: "IE-1983-act-39"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1983-12-20"
last_updated: "1983-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1983/act/39"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Onnmhairiú a Spreagadh (Leasú)(Uimh. 2), 1983"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1983/39"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Export Promotion (Amendment)(No. 2) Act , 1983

##### 1 Increase of non-repayable grants to Córas Tráchtála.

**1.**—The aggregate amount of the sums which the Minister for Trade, Commerce and Tourism, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, may pay to Córas Tráchtála for the purpose of enabling it to exercise or perform its functions (excluding any sum paid to it under section 4 of the Export Promotion (Amendment) Act, 1963) shall not exceed £160,000,000 and, accordingly, section 16 (1) of the Export Promotion Act, 1959, shall be construed as if that sum were substituted for the sum mentioned therein.

##### 2 Amendment of section 12 of Export Promotion Act, 1959.

**2.**—Section 12 of the Export Promotion Act, 1959, is hereby amended by the substitution of—

(*a*) the following subsection for subsection (1):

“(1) Where the Company is dissolved under section 21 of this Act, every person who, immediately before such dissolution, was an officer or servant of the Company shall, on such dissolution, become an officer or servant of the Board on such terms and conditions as to tenure of office, remuneration, allowances and otherwise, as the Board, with the approval of the Minister given with the consent of the Minister for the Public Service, from time to time determines.”,

(*b*) the following subsection for subsection (3):

“(3) An officer or servant appointed by the Board shall hold his office or employment on such terms and conditions as the Board, with the approval of the Minister given with the consent of the Minister for the Public Service, from time to time determines.”,

and

(*c*) the following subsection for subsection (5):

“(5) There shall be paid by the Board to the officers and servants appointed by the Board, out of funds at its disposal, such remuneration and allowances as the Board, with the approval of the Minister given with the consent of the Minister for the Public Service, from time to time determines.”.

##### 3 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Export Promotion (Amendment) (No. 2) Act, 1983.

(2) This Act and the Export Promotion Acts, 1959 to 1983, shall be construed together as one Act.

(3) This Act shall be included in the collective citation “the Export Promotion Acts, 1959 to 1983”.
