---
title: "Housing (Gaeltacht)(Amendment) Act , 1967"
identifier: "IE-1967-act-16"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1967-07-11"
last_updated: "1967-07-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1967/act/16"
title_ga: "Acht na dTithe (Gaeltacht)(Leasú), 1967"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1967/16"
---
# Housing (Gaeltacht)(Amendment) Act , 1967

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act “the Act of 1929” means the Housing (Gaeltacht) Act, 1929, and any reference in this Act to the Act of 1929 shall be construed as a reference to that Act as amended by any other enactment.

(2) The Housing (Gaeltacht) Acts, 1929 to 1964, and this Act shall be construed as one.

##### 2 Extent of Gaeltacht.

**2.**—For the purposes of the Housing (Gaeltacht) Acts, 1929 to 1967, the Gaeltacht shall, in addition to comprising the district electoral divisions mentioned in the Schedule to the Act of 1929, comprise such other areas which for the time being are determined to be Gaeltacht areas by order under section 2 of the Ministers and Secretaries (Amendment) Act, 1956.

##### 3 Grants in relation to additional houses.

**3.**—Section 3 of the Act of 1929 shall be amended as follows:

(*a*) the following subsection is hereby substituted for subsection (7):

“(7) (*a*) Where, in the case of a person who is ordinarily resident in an area which is one of the areas for the time being determined to be Gaeltacht areas by order under section 2 of the Ministers and Secretaries (Amendment) Act, 1956 (No. 21 of 1956), and who is not the occupier of a dwelling-house, such person shows to the satisfaction of the Minister that the Irish language is the language habitually used by him, the Minister may, in his discretion but subject to the provisions of this Act and the regulations made by the Minister thereunder, make to him a grant (in this Act also referred to as a building grant) towards the erection of a dwelling-house in any such area for occupation by him.

(*b*) Where the occupier of a dwelling-house in an area which is one of the areas mentioned in paragraph (*a*) of this subsection proposes to erect, in any such area, a new dwelling-house otherwise than in substitution for the first-mentioned dwelling-house, the Minister may, in his discretion but subject to the provisions of this Act and the regulations made by the Minister thereunder, make to such occupier a grant (in this Act also referred to as a building grant) towards the erection of the new dwelling-house.”; and

(*b*) the following subsection is hereby inserted after subsection (8):

“(9) Where the occupier of a dwelling-house in an area which is one of the areas for the time being determined to be Gaeltacht areas by order under section 2 of the Ministers and Secretaries (Amendment) Act, 1956 (No. 21 of 1956), satisfies the Minister that he is entitled to a beneficial interest in possession in another dwelling-house in such an area which interest the Minister considers sufficient for the purposes of this subsection, the Minister may, in his discretion but subject to the provisions of this Act and the regulations made by the Minister thereunder, make to such occupier any or all of the following:

(*a*) an improving grant under subsection (2) of this section towards the improvement or extension of the other dwelling-house, provided that the Minister is satisfied both that the improvement or extension is desirable and that the expense thereof can be economically incurred;

(*b*) a sanitation grant under subsection (5) of this section in relation to the other dwelling-house, provided that the Minister is satisfied that the condition of the other dwelling-house is such as justifiesthe provision and installation or the improvement, as may be appropriate, of the facilities to which such grant relates;

(*c*) a special extension grant under subsection (6) of this section in relation to the other dwelling-house, provided that the Minister is satisfied both that the provision of an extension, for the accommodation of visitors, to such dwelling-house is desirable and that the requirements of subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (*a*) of the said subsection are complied with.”

##### 4 Amendment of Act of 1929.

**4.**—The Act of 1929 shall be amended as follows:

(*a*) section 3A (3) is hereby amended by the substitution of “three holiday chalet building grants” for “one holiday chalet building grant”;

(*b*) “or a loan under subsection (1A) of section 8 of this Act” in section 3(8), section 8(1A) and “or subsection (1A)” in section 8 (2) are hereby repealed.

##### 5 Short title and collective citation.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1967.

(2) The Housing (Gaeltacht) Acts, 1929 to 1964, and this Act may be cited together as the Housing (Gaeltacht) Acts, 1929 to 1967.
