---
title: "Supplies and Services (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1946 (Continuance and Amendment) Act , 1955"
identifier: "IE-1955-act-3"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1955-03-16"
last_updated: "1955-03-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1955/act/3"
title_ga: "An tAcht um an Acht Soláthairtí agus Seirbhísí (Forála Sealadacha), 1946 (Buanú agus Leasú), 1955"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1955/3"
---
# Supplies and Services (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1946 (Continuance and Amendment) Act , 1955

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act, “the Principal Act” means the Supplies and Services (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1946 (No. 22 of 1946).

##### 2 Amendment of Principal Act.

**2.**—Paragraph (*f*) of subsection (1) of section 2 of the Principal Act (which relates to State guarantees of borrowings by bodies engaged in the provision of essential supplies and services) is hereby repealed.

##### 3 Continuance of Principal Act.

**3.**—(1) The Principal Act shall, unless previously terminated under subsection (2) of this section, continue in force until the 31st day of March, 1956.

(2) The Government may by order declare that the Principal Act shall expire on a specified date, being earlier than the 31st day of March, 1956, and in that case the Principal Act shall expire accordingly.

##### 4 Repeal.

**4.**—The Supplies and Services (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1946 (Continuance) Act, 1953 (No. 31 of 1953), is hereby repealed.

##### 5 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Supplies and Services (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1946 (Continuance and Amendment) Act, 1955.

(2) The Principal Act, the Supplies and Services (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1946 (Continuance and Amendment) Act, 1950 (No. 34 of 1950), and this Act shall be construed together as one Act and may be cited together as the Supplies and Services (Temporary Provisions) Acts, 1946 to 1955.
