---
title: "Transport (No. 2) Act  1974"
identifier: "IE-1974-act-34"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1974-12-24"
last_updated: "1974-12-24"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1974/act/34"
title_ga: "An tAcht Iompair (Uimh. 2), 1974"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1974/34"
---
# Transport (No. 2) Act  1974

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Act of 1964” means the Transport Act, 1964;

“the Board” means Córas Iompair Éireann.

##### 2 Non-repayable grants to Córas Iompair Éireann.

**2.**—The Minister for Transport and Power may make to the Board in the period beginning on the 1st day of April, 1974, and ending on the 31st day of December, 1974, out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas, non-repayable grants of amounts not exceeding £11,300,000 in the aggregate, and any such grants shall be in addition to any grants payable to the Board under any previous enactments.

##### 3 Amendment of section 2 of Transport Act, 1964.

**3.**—Section 2 of the Act of 1964 is hereby amended by the substitution of “payments made to the Board by the Minister out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas” for “the grant payable to the Board under section 6 of this Act” in subsection (1), and, accordingly, that subsection shall have effect as set out in the Table to this section.

TABLE

(1) It shall be the duty of the Board to conduct its undertaking, so that, after taking into account payments made to the Board by the Minister out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas, its operating expenditure, including all charges properly chargeable to revenue, shall not be greater taking one year with another than the revenue of the Board.

##### 4 Expenses.

**4.**—The expenses incurred by the Minister for Transport and Power in the administration of this Act shall, to such extent as may be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

##### 5 Repeal.

**5.**—Section 6 of the Act of 1964 is hereby repealed.

##### 6 Short title.

**6.**—This Act may be cited as the Transport (No. 2) Act, 1974.
