---
title: "Housing (Gaeltacht)(Amendment) Act , 1934"
identifier: "IE-1934-act-29"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1934-07-20"
last_updated: "1934-07-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1934/act/29"
title_ga: "Acht na dTithe (Gaeltacht)(Leasú), 1934"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1934/29"
---
# Housing (Gaeltacht)(Amendment) Act , 1934

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—(1) In this Act, the expression “the Principal Act” means the Housing (Gaeltacht) Act, 1929 (No. 41 of 1929).

(2) Every word or expression to which a particular meaning is given by the Principal Act for the purposes of that Act has in this Act the meaning so given to it.

##### 2 Increase of aggregate amount of grants and loans.

**2.**—Sub-section (1) of section 11 of the Principal Act is hereby repealed and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that the aggregate amount of the grants and loans to be made under the Principal Act shall not exceed the sum of six hundred and fifty thousand pounds.

##### 3 Alteration of maximum amounts of building grants and loans.

**3.**—(1) Paragraph (*a*) of sub-section (2) of section 11 of the Principal Act is hereby repealed and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that the amount of an individual building grant made under the Principal Act shall not exceed—

(*a*) in the case of a building grant made to the occupier of a dwelling-house where the rateable value (as stated in the valuation lists under the Valuation Acts) or the aggregate of the rateable values (as so stated) of such dwelling-house and all other (if any) land and premises held by such occupier does not exceed five pounds—the sum of ninety pounds, and

(*b*) in the case of a building grant made to the occupier of a dwelling-house where the rateable value (as so stated) or the aggregate of the rateable values (as so stated) of such dwelling-house and all other (if any) land and premises held by such occupier exceeds five pounds but does not exceed ten pounds—the sum of eighty-five pounds, and

(*c*) in every other case—the sum of eighty pounds.

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 8 of the Principal Act, the aggregate amount of a building grant and the loan made under the Principal Act in amplification of such building grant shall not exceed the sum of one hundred and sixty pounds.

##### 4 Restriction of Principal Act to Irish-speaking households.

**4.**—Notwithstanding anything contained in the Principal Act, grants and loans under that Act shall be made only to the occupiers of dwelling-houses in which the Irish language is habitually used as the home language of the household, and accordingly so much of sub-section (3) of section 11 of the Principal Act as requires the Minister to give a preference to the occupiers of such dwelling-houses shall cease to have effect.

##### 5 Repeal of restriction on application of available moneys.

**5.**—Sub-section (4) of section 11 of the Principal Act is hereby repealed.

##### 6 Repeal of the Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1931.

**6.**—The Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1931 (No. 53 of 1931) is hereby repealed.

##### 7 Short title and citation.

**7.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1934.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Housing (Gaeltacht) Acts, 1929 and 1934.
