---
title: "Summer Time Act , 1925"
identifier: "IE-1925-act-8"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1925-04-02"
last_updated: "1925-04-02"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1925/act/8"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Am Samhraidh, 1925"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1925/8"
---
# Summer Time Act , 1925

##### 1 Time to be advanced one hour during summer time.

**1.**—(1) The time for general purposes in Saorstát Eireann shall during the period of summer time be one hour in advance of West-European time.

(2) Whenever any reference to a point of time occurs in any enactment, order in council, order, regulation, rule, bye-law, deed, notice, or other document whatsoever, the time referred to shall during the period of summer time be deemed, subject as hereinafter provided, to be the time as fixed for general purposes by this Act.

(3) Nothing in this Act shall affect the use of West-European time for purposes of astronomy, meteorology, or navigation, or affect the construction of any document mentioning or referring to a point of time in connection with any of those purposes.

##### 2 Limits of period of summer time.

**2.**—For the purpose of this Act the period of summer time shall, subject as hereinafter provided, be taken to be the period beginning at two o'clock, West-European time, in the morning of the day next following the third Saturday in the month of April or, if that day is Easter Day, beginning at the said hour of the day next following the second Saturday in the month of April, and in either case ending at two o'clock, West-European time, in the morning of the day next following the third Saturday in the month of September.

##### 3 Power of Minister for Justice to alter summer time.

**3.**—(1) The Minister for Justice may, whenever it appears expedient to him so to do, by order appoint that the period appointed by this Act or by any previous order made under this section to be the period of summer time for the purpose of this Act shall, either generally or in any particular years or year, not be the period of summer time for that purpose, and that, in lieu thereof some other period specified in such order shall, either generally or in such particular years or year (as the case may require), be the period of summer time for the purpose of this Act.

(2) An order made by the Minister for Justice under this section shall not come into operation unless or until it has been approved by resolution of each House of the Oireachtas, but such order when so approved shall have statutory effect as an amendment of this Act.

##### 4 Definition of West-European time.

**4.**—In this Act the expression “West-European time” means Greenwich mean time.

##### 5 Short title.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Summer Time Act, 1925.
