---
title: "Defence (Amendment) Act , 1993"
identifier: "IE-1993-act-18"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1993-07-01"
last_updated: "1993-07-01"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1993/act/18"
title_ga: "An tAcht Cosanta (Leasú), 1993"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1993/18"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Defence (Amendment) Act , 1993

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Act of 1960” means the Defence (Amendment) (No. 2) Act, 1960;

“International United Nations Force” means an international force or body established by the Security Council or the General Assembly of the United Nations;

“the Principal Act” means the Defence Act, 1954.

##### 2 Liability of certain members of the Permanent Defence Force for service with International United Nations Forces.

**2.**—(1) (*a*) This section applies at all times to—

(i) an officer of the Permanent Defence Force appointed on or after the date of the passing of this Act,

(ii) a man of the Permanent Defence Force enlisted on or after the date of the passing of this Act.

(*b*) Where a member of the Permanent Defence Force (not being a member of the Permanent Defence Force specified in *paragraph (a)* of this subsection) has offered in writing, whether on or after the date of the passing of this Act, to render himself liable for external service during a specified period and the Minister or an officer authorised in that behalf by the Minister has accepted the offer, this section shall also apply to that member during that period.

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter III of Part IV of the Principal Act, every member of the Permanent Defence Force to whom this section for the time being applies shall be liable to serve outside the State with a contingent of the Permanent Defence Force which in pursuance of section 2 of the Act of 1960 is despatched for service with an International United Nations Force.

(3) (*a*) Section 3 of the Act of 1960 shall not apply to—

(i) an officer of the Permanent Defence Force appointed on or after the date of the passing of this Act, or

(ii) a man of the Permanent Defence Force enlisted on or after the date of the passing of this Act.

(*b*) An offer shall not be made under subsection (1) (*b*) of the said section 3 on or after the date of the passing of this Act.

##### 3 Application of certain provisions of Principal Act and Act of 1960.

**3.**—(1) Sections 2, 4 (other than subsection (7)), 5 and 6 of the Act of 1960 shall apply and have effect as if each reference therein to an International United Nations Force (within the meaning of that Act) was a reference to an International United Nations Force.

(2) The provisions of the Principal Act specified in the said section 4 shall apply and have effect as if each reference therein to an International United Nations Force (within the meaning of the Act of 1960) was a reference to an International United Nations Force.

##### 4 Annual report to Dáil Éireann.

**4.**—The Minister shall, as soon as may be after the 1st day of January in each year beginning with the year 1994, make a report to Dáil Éireann on the operation in the preceding year of section 2 of the Act of 1960 and Dáil Éireann may by resolution approve of the report.

##### 5 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Defence (Amendment) Act, 1993.

(2) The Defence Acts, 1954 to 1990, and this Act may be cited together as the Defence Acts, 1954 to 1993, and shall be construed together as one.
