---
title: "Aran Islands Transport Act , 1946"
identifier: "IE-1946-act-5"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1946-03-19"
last_updated: "1946-03-19"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1946/act/5"
title_ga: "Acht Iompair Oileán Árann, 1946"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1946/5"
---
# Aran Islands Transport Act , 1946

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “the Act of 1936” means the Aran Islands (Transport) Act, 1936;

the expression “the Minister” means the Minister for Industry and Commerce.

##### 2 Contracts for shipping service to the Aran Islands.

**2.**—(1) The Minister, either alone or jointly with any other Minister or Ministers, may, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, from time to time contract with any person for the carrying on, during any period commencing on or after the 1st day of January, 1946, by such person of a shipping service available to the public for the transport of passengers and goods for reward between the City of Galway and the Aran Islands and may, with the consent aforesaid, by such contract make provision for all or any of the following matters, that is to say:—

(*a*) the vessel or vessels to be used for the purpose of such service, and the maintenance, repair, and insurance of such vessel or vessels;

(*b*) the frequency and times of such service;

(*c*) the charges to be made for the carriage of passengers and goods by such service;

(*d*) the duration, continuation, renewal, and termination of such contract;

(*e*) the disposal, on the termination of such contract, of any vessel used for the purpose of such service, including the transfer of such vessel to the Minister;

(*f*) any other matter which appears to the Minister and every (if any) other Minister who is a party to such contract to be necessary or desirable for promoting the efficiency and remunerativeness of such service.

(2) The Minister may by any contract made under this section undertake, with the consent of the Minister for Finance and subject to the limitations, in respect of occasional subsidies, imposed by section 3 of this Act, to pay, at such times and subject to such conditions as shall be stated in such contract, an annual subsidy or an occasional subsidy or both such subsidies to the person who is for the time being carrying on the shipping service which is the subject of such contract.

(3) The authority conferred by subsections (1) and (2) of this section to enter into such contract as is mentioned in those subsections shall extend to continuing, renewing, varying, and terminating, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, any such contract but subject, as regards so much of such contract as relates to an occasional subsidy, to the limitations imposed by section 3 of this Act.

##### 3 Limitations on occasional subsidies under this Act.

**3.**—Occasional subsidies under this Act or under any contract made under this Act shall be payable only by way of contribution to expenses actually incurred in the overhaul or repair of a vessel used for the purpose of the service in relation to which such subsidy is payable.

##### 4 Waiver by Minister of right to transfer of steamship “Dun Aengus”.

**4.**—The Minister is hereby authorised to waive the right, acquired by him under an agreement made, under section 2 of the Act of 1936, on the 3rd day of June, 1938, between the Minister of the first part, the Minister for Agriculture of the second part, the Minister for Finance of the third part, and the Galway Bay Steamboat Company, Limited, of the fourth part, to have the steamship “Dun Aengus” transferred to the Minister.

##### 5 Expenses.

**5.**—All expenses incurred by the Minister under this Act (including the payment of subsidies under a contract made under this Act) shall, to such extent as shall be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance and subject, as regards occasional subsidies, to the limitations imposed by section 3 of this Act, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

##### 6 Repeal of Act of 1936.

**6.**—The Act of 1936 is hereby repealed.

##### 7 Short title.

**7.**—This Act may be cited as the Aran Islands Transport Act, 1946.
