---
title: "Health (Amendment) Act  1987"
identifier: "IE-1987-act-3"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1987-04-11"
last_updated: "1987-04-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1987/act/3"
title_ga: "An tAcht Sláinte (Leasú), 1987"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1987/3"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Health (Amendment) Act  1987

##### 1 Out-patient services.

**1.**—Section 56 of the Health Act, 1970, is hereby amended by the substitution, for subsections (2) to (5), of the following subsections:

“(2) A health board shall, subject to any regulations relating to the services under this section made by virtue of *subsection (5)*, make out-patient services available for persons with full eligibility and persons with limited eligibility.

(3) A health board shall make out-patient services available without charge for children in respect of diseases and disabilities of a permanent or long term nature prescribed by the Minister with the consent of the Minister for Finance.

(4) A health board shall make out-patient services available without charge for children in respect of defects noticed at a health examination held pursuant to the service provided under section 66.

(5) (*a*) Regulations in relation to the services under this section may—

(i) provide for the imposition of charges for out-patient services including the giving of any drug, medicine or other preparation in specified circumstances for persons who are not persons with full eligibility and are not children specified in *subsection (3)* or *(4)*, and

(ii) specify the amounts or the maximum amounts of such charges and, if the Minister thinks fit, different amounts in respect of different services or in respect of services made available in different circumstances or to different classes of persons (the circumstances and classes being designated in such manner and by reference to such matters as the Minister may determine).

(*b*) Regulations relating to the matters specified in *paragraph (a)* may contain such ancillary or subsidiary provisions as the Minister considers necessary or expedient, including provisions for the collection and disposal of charges imposed by the regulations.

(*c*) Regulations relating to the matters specified in *paragraph (a)* shall not be made without the consent of the Minister for Finance”.

##### 2 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**2.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Health (Amendment) Act, 1987.

(2) The Health Acts, 1947 to 1985, and this Act may be cited together as the Health Acts, 1947 to 1987.

(3) The Health Acts, 1947 to 1985, and this Act shall be construed together as one Act.
