---
title: "Irish Sailors and Soldiers Land Trust Act , 1988"
identifier: "IE-1988-act-33"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1988-11-30"
last_updated: "1988-11-30"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1988/act/33"
title_ga: "An tAcht um an gComhlacht Talún do Mhairnéalaigh agus do Shaighdiúirí Éireannacha, 1988"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1988/33"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Irish Sailors and Soldiers Land Trust Act , 1988

##### 1 Definition.

**1.**—In this Act “the Trust” means the Irish Sailors and Soldiers Land Trust.

##### 2 Acceptance on behalf of Government, and disposal, of money paid by Trust.

**2.**—The Minister for Finance may accept on behalf of the Government any money payable to the Government from the Trust pursuant to an Act of the British Parliament entitled the Irish Sailors and Soldiers Land Trust Act 1987 and any such money accepted by him shall be paid into the Exchequer and shall be disposed of for the purposes of such projects or undertakings (including the Royal National Lifeboat Institution) involving co-operation between the State and Northern Ireland or the State and Great Britain or relating to the island of Ireland as a whole as the Taoiseach may, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, determine.

##### 3 Repeals.

**3.**—(1) The following are hereby repealed:

(*a*) section 4 of the Irish Land (Provision for Sailors and Soldiers) Act, 1919, and

(*b*) the Land Trust Powers Act, 1923.

(2) *Subsection (1)* of this section shall come into operation on such day, not being earlier than the day on which the Trust is dissolved pursuant to the British Act referred to in *section 2* of this Act, as the Taoiseach may appoint by order.

##### 4 Expenses.

**4.**—The expenses incurred in the administration of this Act shall, to such extent as may be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

##### 5 Short title.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Irish Sailors and Soldiers Land Trust Act, 1988.
