---
title: "School Meals (Gaeltacht) Act , 1933"
identifier: "IE-1933-act-48"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1933-12-14"
last_updated: "1933-12-14"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1933/act/48"
title_ga: "Acht na mBéilí Scoile (Gaeltacht), 1933"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1933/48"
---
# School Meals (Gaeltacht) Act , 1933

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—(1) In this Act—

the expression “the Principal Act” means the School Meals (Gaeltacht) Act, 1930 (No. 23 of 1930);

the expression “the Minister” means the Minister for Local Government and Public Health;

the word “board” means a board of health to which the Principal Act applies;

the expression “local financial year” has the meaning assigned to it by the Principal Act.

(2) Where a grant has been made under section 9 of the Principal Act to a board in respect of any local financial year and the amount of such grant is less than one-half of the expenses incurred by such board in such year in providing food under the Principal Act, the difference between such grant and such one-half shall for the purposes of this Act be the deficiency in relation to such board in respect of such year.

##### 2 Additional payments in respect of the provision of meals by certain boards of health.

**2.**—(1) Where the sum of £10,000 exceeds the total grants made under section 9 of the Principal Act in respect of any local financial year, and there is in relation to any board a deficiency in respect of such year, the following provisions shall have effect, that is to say:—

(*a*) in case there is a deficiency in relation to one board only in respect of such year, the Minister may, out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas, pay to that board a sum not exceeding whichever of the following amounts is the less, that is to say:—

(i) an amount equal to such excess, and

(ii) an amount equal to such deficiency;

(*b*) in case there are deficiencies in relation to two or more boards in respect of such year, and such excess is not less than the total of such deficiencies, the Minister may, out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas, pay to each such board a sum not exceeding the amount of the deficiency in relation to such board in respect of such year;

(*c*) in case there are deficiencies in relation to two or more boards in respect of such year and such excess is less than the total of such deficiencies, the Minister may, out of moneys to be provided by the Oireachtas, pay to each such board a sum which bears to such excess the same proportion as the deficiency in relation to such board in respect of such year bears to the total of the deficiencies in relation to all such boards in respect of such year.

(2) Any moneys paid under this section to a board in respect of a local financial year shall be so paid by way of increase of the grant made under section 9 of the Principal Act to such board in respect of such year.

(3) The provisions of this section shall apply in respect of the local financial year which commenced on the 1st day of April, 1933, and every subsequent local financial year, and no other financial year.

(4) The expression “this Act” where it occurs secondly in section 8 of the Principal Act shall be construed as meaning that Act or this present Act, and the said section shall have effect accordingly.

##### 3 Regulations.

**3.**—The Minister may, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, make regulations prescribing the times at which and the manner in which sums payable under this Act by the Minister to boards are to be paid.

##### 4 Expenses.

**4.**—All expenses incurred by the Minister in carrying this Act into execution shall, to such extent as may be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

##### 5 Short title and citation.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the School Meals (Gaeltacht) Act, 1933, and the Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the School Meals (Gaeltacht) Acts, 1930 and 1933.
