---
title: "Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices (Amendment) Act , 1947"
identifier: "IE-1947-act-24"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1947-07-23"
last_updated: "1947-07-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1947/act/24"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Oifigí Aireachta agus Parlaiminte (Leasú), 1947"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1947/24"
---
# Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices (Amendment) Act , 1947

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act, the expression “the Principal Act” means the Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices Act, 1938 (No. 38 of 1938).

##### 2 Amendment of Part II of the Principal Act.

**2.**—(1) In subsection (1) of section 3 and in section 4 of the Principal Act, the references to the sum of £2,500 shall be construed as references to that sum increased by twenty per cent.

(2) In subsection (1) of section 3 and in subsection (1) of section 5 of the Principal Act, the references to the sum of £1,700 shall be construed as references to that sum increased by twenty-five per cent.

(3) In subsection (2) of section 3 and in subsection (1) of section 6 of the Principal Act, the references to the sum of £1,200 shall be construed as references to that sum increased by thirty per cent.

(4) In subsection (1) of section 5 of the Principal Act, the reference to the sum of £1,000 shall be construed as a reference to that sum increased by thirty per cent.

(5) In subsection (1) of section 6 of the Principal Act, the reference to the sum of £750 shall be construed as a reference to that sum increased by thirty per cent.

##### 3 Amendment of Part III of the Principal Act.

**3.**—(1) In subsection (1) of section 10 of the Principal Act, the reference to £800 shall be construed as a reference to that sum increased by thirty per cent.

(2) In subsection (2) of section 10 of the Principal Act, the reference to £500 shall be construed as a reference to that sum increased by thirty per cent.

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices (Amendment) Act, 1947.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Ministerial and Parliamentary Offices Acts, 1938 and 1947.
