---
title: "Fisheries (Amendment) Act  1974"
identifier: "IE-1974-act-25"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1974-07-30"
last_updated: "1974-07-30"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1974/act/25"
title_ga: "An tAcht Iascaigh (Leasú), 1974"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1974/25"
---
# Fisheries (Amendment) Act  1974

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Fisheries (Consolidation) Act, 1959.

##### 2 Elections of certain conservators postponed.

**2.**—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Fisheries Acts, 1959 to 1964, the following provisions shall have effect:

(*a*) the elections of conservators pursuant to sections 22 and 27 of the Principal Act which, apart from this section, would fall to be held in the year 1974 shall be held instead either in the year 1975 or in such later year as the Minister, if he thinks fit, by order fixes,

(*b*) the elections of conservators pursuant to those sections, other than the elections mentioned in paragraph (*a*) of this subsection, shall be held in each fifth successive year after the year in which the elections so mentioned are held, and

(*c*) election year shall be construed in accordance with paragraphs (*a*) and (*b*) of this subsection.

(2) When an order under this section is proposed to be made, the Minister shall cause a draft of the order to be laid before each House of the Oireachtas and the order shall not be made until a resolution approving of the draft has been passed by each such House.

##### 3 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Fisheries (Amendment) Act, 1974.

(2) The Fisheries Acts, 1959 to 1964, and this Act may be cited together as the Fisheries Acts, 1959 to 1974.

(3) The Principal Act and this Act shall be construed together as one.
