---
title: "Social Welfare (Amendment) Act , 1956"
identifier: "IE-1956-act-24"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1956-07-11"
last_updated: "1956-07-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1956/act/24"
title_ga: "An tAcht Leasa Shóisialaigh (Leasú), 1956"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1956/24"
---
# Social Welfare (Amendment) Act , 1956

##### 1 “Principal Act”.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Social Welfare Act, 1952 (No. 11 of 1952).

##### 2 Amendment of section 6 of Principal Act (contributions generally).

**2.**—(1) In subsection (2) of section 6 of the Principal Act “two shillings” is hereby substituted for “one shilling and sixpence”.

(2) Subsection (1) of this section shall come into operation on the 3rd day of September, 1956.

##### 3 Amendment of section 12 of Principal Act (modifications in the case of persons in certain employments).

**3.**—The following subsections are hereby inserted in section 12 of the Principal Act after subsection (1) of that section:

“(1A) Notwithstanding sections 5 and 6 of this Act, regulations for the purposes of this section may provide for employment contributions consisting of employers' contributions only, and the said sections 5 and 6 shall, so long as regulations so providing are in force, stand modified accordingly.

(1B) Regulations for the purposes of this section may modify the provisions of this Act in different ways for male persons and for female persons employed in the same employment.”

##### 4 Amendment of Second Schedule to Principal Act (rates of employment contributions).

**4.**—(1) In subparagraph (*a*) of paragraph 1 of the Second Schedule to the Principal Act “2s. 9d.” is hereby substituted for “2s. 4d.” and “1s. 8d.” is hereby substituted for “1s. 4d.”.

(2) In subparagraph (*b*) of paragraph 1 of the Second Schedule to the Principal Act “2s. 9d.” is hereby substituted for “2s. 4d.” and “2s. 5d.” is hereby substituted for “2s. 0d.”.

(3) In subparagraph (*a*) and in subparagraph (*b*) of paragraph 2 of the Second Schedule to the Principal Act “1s. 7d.” is hereby substituted for “1s. 3d.”.

(4) In subparagraph (*a*) of paragraph 3 of the Second Schedule to the Principal Act “11d.” is hereby substituted for “9d.”.

(5) In subparagraph (*b*) of paragraph 3 of the Second Schedule to the Principal Act “1s. 7d.” is hereby substituted for “1s. 3d.”.

(6) Subsections (1) to (5) of this section shall come into operation on the 3rd day of September, 1956.

##### 5 Amendment of Part I of Third Schedule to Principal Act (rates of periodical benefits and of increases thereof).

**5.**—(1) (*a*) In the second column of Part I of the Third Schedule to the Principal Act “30” is hereby substituted for “24” in both places where “24” occurs in that column opposite paragraph 1 in the first column of that Part.

(*b*) In the second column of Part I of the Third Schedule to the Principal Act “22” is hereby substituted for “18” in both places where “18” occurs in that column.

(*c*) In the third column of Part I of the Third Schedule to the Principal Act “15” is hereby substituted for “12” in both places where “12” occurs in that column.

(*d*) In the fourth column of Part I of the Third Schedule to the Principal Act “8” is hereby substituted for “7” in both places where “7” occurs in that column opposite paragraph 1 in the first column of that Part.

(2) In the second column of Part I of the Third Schedule to the Principal Act “30” is hereby substituted for “24” where“24” occurs in that column opposite paragraph 2 in the first column of that Part.

(3) (*a*) In the second column of Part I of the Third Schedule to the Principal Act “30” is hereby substituted for “24” where “24” occurs in that column opposite paragraph 3 in the first column of that Part.

(*b*) In the fourth column of Part I of the Third Schedule to the Principal Act “8” is hereby substituted for “7” where “7” occurs in that column opposite paragraph 3 in the first column of that Part.

(4) Subsections (1) and (2) of this section shall come into operation on the 3rd day of September, 1956 and subsection (3) of this section shall come into operation on the 7th day of September, 1956.

##### 6 Short title and collective citation.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Social Welfare (Amendment) Act, 1956.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Social Welfare Acts, 1952 and 1956.
