---
title: "Coroners (Qualification) Act 1924"
identifier: "IE-1924-act-4"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1924-02-27"
last_updated: "1924-02-27"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1924/act/4"
title_ga: "An tAcht Coróinéirí (Cáilíocht) 1924"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1924/4"
---
# Coroners (Qualification) Act 1924

##### 1 Qualification of certain resigned justices of the peace to be coroners.

**1.**—In addition to the persons mentioned in Section 2 of the Coroners (Ireland) Act, 1881, any person who—

(*a*) was a justice of the peace on the 1st day of January, 1919, and

(*b*) resigned from the office of justice of the peace at any time after the 1st day of January, 1919, and before the 6th day of December, 1921, and

(*c*) was at the date of such resignation a justice of the peace of five years' standing,

shall be qualified to be appointed, elected or chosen to the office of coroner under that Act and shall be deemed to have been so qualified since the first day of January, 1919.

##### 2 Validation of appointments of persons in Schedule as coroners.

**2.**—The persons named in the Schedule to this Act shall be deemed to have been validly appointed to the respective offices of coroner on the respective dates to and on which they are stated in the said Schedule to have been respectively appointed, notwithstanding that at the time of being so appointed they did not hold any of the qualifications prescribed by Section 2 of the Coroners (Ireland) Act, 1881, and the persons aforesaid shall be deemed to have held the respective offices aforesaid since their respective appointments thereto and shall henceforth hold the same as fully and effectually as, but no further or otherwise than, if they had at the time aforesaid been duly qualified in accordance with the Act aforesaid.

##### 3 Short title.

**3.**—This Act may be cited as the Coroners (Qualification) Act, 1924.

## SCHEDULE.

1. Peter Malynn, of Newtown Terrace, Athlone, appointed on the 3rd day of November, 1921, to be coroner for the County of Westmeath.

2. John S. McNeice, of “Hawthorn Villas,” O'Connell Avenue, Limerick, appointed on the 2nd day of November, 1922, to be coroner for the County of the City of Limerick.
