---
title: "Electricity (Supply)(Amendment) Act , 1932"
identifier: "IE-1932-act-15"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1932-07-23"
last_updated: "1932-07-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1932/act/15"
title_ga: "An tAcht Leictreachais (Soláthar)(Leasú), 1932"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1932/15"
---
# Electricity (Supply)(Amendment) Act , 1932

##### 1 Definitions and construction.

**1.**—(1) In this Act the expression “the Act of 1925” means the Shannon Electricity Act, 1925 (No. 26 of 1925), and the expression “the Principal Act” means the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1927 (No. 27 of 1927).

(2) This Act and the Principal Act shall be read and construed as one Act, and accordingly words and expressions used in this Act which are also used in the Principal Act have the same meanings in this Act as they respectively have in the Principal Act.

##### 2 Amendment of section 11 of the Act of 1925.

**2.**—Sub-section (5) of section 11 of the Act of 1925 is hereby amended by the deletion of the words “five millions, eight hundred and thirty-five thousand pounds” inserted therein by sub-section (2) of section 1 of the Electricity (Finance) Act, 1929 (No. 26 of 1929), and the insertion in lieu of the words so deleted of the words “six million, one hundred and seventy thousand pounds”.

##### 3 Amendment of section 15 of the Principal Act.

**3.**—So much of sub-section (10) of section 15 of the Principal Act as amended by section 7 of the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1930 (No. 19 of 1930), as limits the time within which variations may be made under that sub-section of the sums therein mentioned shall cease to have effect.

##### 4 Amendment of section 3 of the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1931.

**4.**—Sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1931 (No. 32 of 1931), is hereby amended by the deletion of the words “two million pounds” now contained therein and the insertion in lieu of the words so deleted of the words “two million, three hundred and sixty-five thousand pounds”.

##### 5 Additional functions of the Board.

**5.**—(1) The powers conferred on the Board by sub-section (3) of section 20 of the Principal Act shall include the enlargement or extension of the Shannon works by the installation, with the sanction of the Minister, of turbines, dynamos, and other machinery and equipment for generating electricity, either in addition to or in substitution for machinery in the said works at the time of such installation, and to erect buildings and install incidental equipment and fittings and do such other things as may be reasonably necessary for the efficient installation and operation of such machinery.

(2) The exercise by the Board of the powers conferred by this section shall, for the purposes of the Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1931, and this Act and in particular for the purposes of the Principal Act, be a function of the Board under those Acts.

##### 6 Power to the Minister to transfer certain liabilities to the Board.

**6.**—Where the Minister is liable to make any periodical payments (whether of fixed or varying amounts) extending over a period continuing for more than three years after the passing of this Act and such liability either is a liability in respect of land acquired by the Minister under the Act of 1925 or is a liability under a contract, lease, or agreement entered into by the Minister under that Act, the Minister may by order transfer to the Board the liability to make such payments as on and from such date as shall be specified in that behalf in such order, and may also by the same order transfer as on and from the said date to the Board, together with such liability, all or any other liabilities and all or any obligations, rights, and benefits of the Minister in respect of the same land or under the same contract, lease or agreement, as the case may be.

##### 7 Short title and citation.

**7.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1932.

(2) The Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1931, and this Act may be cited together as the Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1932.
