---
title: "Department of Lands (Establishment of Foresters) Act , 1953"
identifier: "IE-1953-act-13"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1953-05-05"
last_updated: "1953-05-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1953/act/13"
title_ga: "An tAcht um an Roinn Tailte (Foraoiseoirí a Bhunú), 1953"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1953/13"
---
# Department of Lands (Establishment of Foresters) Act , 1953

##### 1 Minister.

**1.**—In this Act “the Minister” means the Minister for Lands.

##### 2 Foresters.

**2.**—(1) Where on the passing of this Act a person holds a situation to which this section applies, the Civil Service Commissioners may, on the recommendation of the Minister given with the concurrence of the Minister for Finance, grant to him a certificate of qualification for that situation.

(2) A certificate under this section shall be expressed to take effect from the date of the passing of this Act.

(3) This section applies to the following situations in the Department of Lands:

(*a*) Head Forester;

(*b*) Forester, Grade I;

(*c*) Forester, Grade II;

(*d*) Forester, Grade III.

##### 3 Forestry Trainees.

**3.**—Where a person who held on the passing of this Act the situation of Forestry Trainee in the Department of Lands completes his course of training to the satisfaction of the Minister, the Civil Service Commissioners may, on the recommendation of the Minister given with the concurrence of the Minister for Finance, grant to him a certificate of qualification for the situation of Forester, Grade III in the Department of Lands.

##### 4 Effect of certificate.

**4.**—Where a certificate of qualification is granted pursuant to this Act, the person to whom the certificate is granted shall be deemed to have been appointed to a permanent situation in the Civil Service of the Government on the date from which the certificate has effect.

##### 5 Discretion of Minister.

**5.**—The giving of a recommendation under this Act shall, without prejudice to the necessity of having the concurrence of the Minister for Finance, be within the absolute discretion of the Minister.

##### 6 Short title.

**6.**—This Act may be cited as the Department of Lands (Establishment of Foresters) Act, 1953.
