---
title: "Royal Hospital Kilmainham Act , 1962"
identifier: "IE-1962-act-7"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1962-03-28"
last_updated: "1962-03-28"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1962/act/7"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Ospidéal Ríoga Chill Mhaighneann, 1962"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1962/7"
---
# Royal Hospital Kilmainham Act , 1962

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the dissolution date” means the date, namely, the 31st day of December, 1955, on which the Governors became dissolved by virtue of the Royal Hospital Kilmainham (Dissolution of Governors and Revocation of Charters) Order, 1955;

“the Governors” means the Governors of the Hospital of King Charles the Second incorporated under that name by charter of the 19th day of February, 1684;

“the Hospital” means the Hospital of King Charles the Second for antient and maimed officers and soldiers of the army of Ireland, established by the said charter and commonly called the Royal Hospital, Kilmainham;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Finance;

“the trust funds” means the sums of stock specified in the Schedule to this Act and includes all investments which may hereafter be substituted for and represent those sums.

##### 2 Transfer of lands and buildings to the Minister.

**2.**—(1) All lands and buildings which were comprised in and constituted the Hospital immediately before the dissolution date and all other lands and buildings which were vested in or held in trust for the Governors immediately before the dissolution date shall, on the commencement of this Act, and without any conveyance or assignment, become vested in the Minister, freed from all trusts, for all the estate or interest for which such lands and buildings were vested in or held in trust for the Governors immediately before the dissolution date.

(2) Subsection (1) of this section shall, for the purposes of section 6 of the Conveyancing Act, 1881, have effect as a conveyance of land.

##### 3 Transfer of chattels to the Minister.

**3.**—(1) All furniture, fittings, fixtures, pictures, books, documents, and other chattels whatsoever, whether situated in the Hospital or elsewhere, which, having belonged to or having been held in trust for the Governors immediately before the dissolution date, remained existing immediately before the commencement of this Act shall, on such commencement, become transferred to and the property of the Minister.

(2) The chattels transferred by this section shall be retained and used by the Minister for such public purposes as he may think proper, but the Minister may, at his absolute discretion, dispose of all or any of such chattels by sale for the benefit of the Exchequer or by gift, exchange or loan.

##### 4 Payment to Royal Hospital, Chelsea, and settlement of scheme.

**4.**—The High Court, on application made to it by the Attorney General, may—

(*a*) order the payment to the Commissioners of the Royal Hospital, Chelsea, of—

(i) the sum of £2,440. 7. 4. out of the interest accrued on the portion of the trust funds mentioned in Part I of the Schedule to this Act,

(ii) such sum as may be realised on the sale of all investments representing accrued interest on the said portion, and

(iii) all interest accrued on the investments referred to in the foregoing subparagraph up to the time of their sale,

(*b*) prepare and settle a scheme for the management and application of the trust funds (including any balance of interest accrued thereon) for some specified charitable purposes or purpose for the benefit of all or any classes or class of members or former members of the Defence Forces.

##### 5 Trustee of trust funds until coming into operation of scheme.

**5.**—On the commencement of this Act and thereafter until the coming into operation of a scheme under section 4 of this Act, the Attorney General shall be the sole trustee of the trust funds.

##### 6 Short title and commencement.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Royal Hospital Kilmainham Act, 1962.

(2) This Act shall come into operation on the 6th day of April, 1962.

## SCHEDULE. Trust Funds.

## Part I.

A. £6,078 6s. 7d. (six thousand and seventy-eight pounds, six shillings and seven pence) 2 per cent. Consolidated Stock of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland lodged with the Accountant of the Courts of Justice to the credit of a ledger account entitled—

“Ex parte the Great Southern and Western Railway Company and to the credit of the Governors of the Hospital of King Charles II and all other persons interested in respect of all those pieces of land situate in the Parish of St. James County of Dublin containing 7 a. 3 r. and 18 p. and Nos. 16, 21, 28, 29 and 31 on the map of said Railway.”

B. £4,027 6s. 11d. (four thousand and twenty-seven pounds, six shillings, and eleven pence) 2 per cent. Consolidated Stock of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland lodged with the Accountant of the Courts of Justice to the credit of a ledger account entitled—

“Ex parte the Great Southern and Western Railway Coy. to the credit of the Governors of the Hospital of King Charles II and all persons interested in part of the lands of the said Hospital situate in the Parish of St. James County of Dublin containing 13 a. 3 r. and 38 p. plantation measure.”

## Part I.

£369 4s. 0d. (three hundred and sixty-nine pounds, four shillings) 2 per cent. Consolidated Stock of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland standing in the books of the Bank of Ireland and inscribed in the name of—

“The Governors of the Royal Hospital of King Charles II, Dublin, for relief and maintenance of ancient and maimed officers and soldiers of the Army in Ireland”.
