---
title: "Industrial Development Act  1978"
identifier: "IE-1978-act-29"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1978-12-12"
last_updated: "1978-12-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1978/act/29"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Fhorbairt Tionscail, 1978"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1978/29"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Industrial Development Act  1978

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Act of 1975” means the Industrial Development Act, 1975;

“the Act of 1977” means the Industrial Development Act, 1977;

“the Principal Act” means the Industrial Development Act, 1969.

##### 2 Amendment of section 17 of Principal Act.

**2.**—Section 17 of the Principal Act (as amended by the Industrial Development (No. 2) Act, 1975, and by the Act of 1977) is hereby amended by the substitution for subsections (2) (*a*) and (3) (*a*) of the following subsections:

“(2) (*a*) The aggregate amount of grants made by the Authority under the Industrial Grants Act, 1956, and of grants (other than grants under section 12 of the Act of 1952) made by An Foras Tionscal and the Minister under the Undeveloped Areas Acts, 1952 to 1969, and the Industrial Grants Acts, 1959 to 1969, and by the Authority under this Act, and of payments made by An Foras Tionscal and the Minister on foot of guarantees given by An Foras Tionscal and the Minister under the Industrial Grants Act, 1959, and of payments made by An Foras Tionscal or the Authority under section 4 of the Act of 1966, and of payments made by the Authority under section 15 of this Act, and of shares purchased or taken by the Authority under section 44 of this Act, and of grants made by the Authority under section 2 or 3 of the Industrial Development Act, 1977, shall not exceed £750,000,000.

(3) (*a*) The aggregate amount of grants under section 12 of the Act of 1952, section 3 of the Industrial Grants Act, 1956, and subsection (1) (*b*) of this section (excluding any amounts required by the Authority to enable it to meet its obligations or liabilities arising from guarantees under section 37 of this Act or section 2 or 3 of the Industrial Development Act, 1977) shall not exceed £750,000,000.”.

##### 3 Amendment of section 27 of Principal Act.

**3.**—(1) Section 27 of the Principal Act, which relates to superannuation, is hereby amended by the insertion after “on retirement” in subsections (1) and (2) of “or death”.

(2) This section shall be deemed to have come into operation on the commencement of section 27 of the Principal Act.

##### 4 Amendment of section 38 of Principal Act.

**4.**—Section 38 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution for subsections (3) and (4) (inserted by the Act of 1975) of the following subsections:

“(3) The total amount of moneys paid in grants under this section in respect of an industrial undertaking shall not exceed £1,250,000.

(4) Notwithstanding anything in this section the Government may, in respect of a particular industrial undertaking, permit the making by the Authority of grants under subsection (1) of this section exceeding in amount £1,250,000, provided that in each such case the percentage limits specified in subsection (2) of this section are not exceeded.”.

##### 5 Amendment of section 39 of Principal Act.

**5.**—Section 39 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution of the following subsection for subsection (4) (inserted by the Act of 1977):

“(4) The Authority shall not, without the prior permission of the Government, give in respect of a particular undertaking a training grant or training grants exceeding in the aggregate £1,250,000.”.

##### 6 Amendment of section 42 of Principal Act.

**6.**—The Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution for section 42 (inserted by the Act of 1975) of the following section:

“42.—(1) The total amount of moneys granted under one or more of the following sections of this Act, namely, sections 33, 34, 35 and 46, to or in respect of a particular industrial undertaking shall not exceed £1,250,000.

(2) Notwithstanding anything in this section, the Government may, in respect of a particular industrial undertaking, permit the making of a grant or grants under one or more of the sections referred to in subsection (1) of this section exceeding in amount £1,250,000, provided that in each such case the percentage limits specified in sections 33 (2), 34 (2), 35 (2) and 35 (4) of this Act (as may be appropriate) are not exceeded.”.

##### 7 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**7.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Industrial Development Act, 1978.

(2) The Industrial Development Acts, 1969 to 1977, and this Act shall be construed together as one Act and may be cited together as the Industrial Development Acts, 1969 to 1978.
