---
title: "Railways (Amendment) Act , 1929"
identifier: "IE-1929-act-23"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1929-07-16"
last_updated: "1929-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1929/act/23"
title_ga: "Acht na mBóthar Iarainn (Leasú), 1929"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1929/23"
---
# Railways (Amendment) Act , 1929

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Railways Act, 1924 (No. 29 of 1924).

##### 2 Term of office of members of railway tribunal.

**2.**—(1) Every standing member of the railway tribunal appointed after the passing of this Act shall be appointed and hold office for one year and shall then retire, but shall be eligible for re-appointment.

(2) Sub-section (2) of section 13 of the Principal Act is hereby repealed but such repeal shall not prejudice or affect the duration of the term of office of any existing standing member of the railway tribunal under an appointment made before the passing of this Act or the eligibility of any such member for appointment under this section.

##### 3 Reduction of railway tribunal to one member.

**3.**—(1) The Governor-General may, by order made on the advice of the Executive Council at any time while there are three standing members of the railway tribunal, declare that it is expedient in the public interest that on the expiration of the terms of office then current of the ordinary members of the railway tribunal no appointment of ordinary members of the railway tribunal should be made and that (without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (4) of section 17 of the Principal Act) the railway tribunal should consist of the Chairman alone.

(2) Whenever an order is made under the foregoing sub-section then on the expiration of the terms of office of the ordinary members of the railway tribunal current at the date of such order and for so long thereafter as such order remains unrevoked no appointment shall be made of ordinary members of the railway tribunal and the Chairman shall be the only standing member of the railway tribunal and (without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (4) of section 17 of the Principal Act) the railway tribunal shall consist of the Chairman alone.

(3) The Governor-General may at any time by order made on the advice of the Executive Council revoke an order previously made by him under sub-section (1) of this section.

(4) Every order made under this section shall be published in the *Iris Oifigiúil* as soon as may be after it is made.

##### 4 Short title, construction and citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Railways (Amendment) Act, 1929.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with Part II of the Principal Act.

(3) The Railways Acts, 1924 and 1926, and this Act may be cited together as the Railways Acts, 1924 to 1929.
