---
title: "Fishery Harbour Centres (Amendment) Act , 1992"
identifier: "IE-1992-act-10"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1992-06-10"
last_updated: "1992-06-10"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1992/act/10"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Lárionaid Chuanta Iascaigh (Leasú), 1992"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1992/10"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Fishery Harbour Centres (Amendment) Act , 1992

##### 1 “Principal Act”.

**1.**—In this Act the “Principal Act” means the Fishery Harbour Centres Act, 1968.

##### 2 Area of Castletownbere Harbour.

**2.**—(1) Castletownbere Harbour, being one of the harbours referred to in the Schedule to the Principal Act, includes the sea area between an imaginary straight line drawn from Fair Head to Shee Head both in the county of Cork and an imaginary straight line drawn from Furze Point in the county of Cork to Roancarrigmore Lighthouse in Bantry Bay and an imaginary straight line drawn from the said lighthouse to the most southerly point of Carrigranean Island in Bantry Bay and an imaginary straight line drawn from the said point to the point of Bear Island in Bantry Bay nearest to the point aforesaid.

(2) Subsection (6) of section 2 of the Principal Act shall not apply to an order under that section which extends the area of Castletownbere Fishery Harbour Centre so as to include the whole of the sea area aforesaid.

(3) The Bantry Bay Harbour Commissioners shall not exercise or perform in or in relation to Castletownbere Fishery Harbour Centre any of their powers, functions or duties.

(4) Where a vessel anchors or passes through Castletownbere Fishery Harbour Centre on a voyage in the course of which harbour rates or other charges have been paid or have or will become payable to the Bantry Bay Harbour Commissioners in relation to the vessel or its passengers or cargo, harbour rates or other charges shall not be payable in respect of the anchoring or passage aforesaid.

##### 3 Short title and collective citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Fishery Harbour Centres (Amendment) Act, 1992.

(2) The Fishery Harbour Centres Acts, 1968 and 1980, and this Act may be cited together as the Fishery Harbour Centres Acts, 1968 to 1992.
