---
title: "Sea Fisheries (Amendment) Act , 1955"
identifier: "IE-1955-act-17"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1955-07-26"
last_updated: "1955-07-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1955/act/17"
title_ga: "An tAcht Iascaigh Mhara (Leasú), 1955"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1955/17"
---
# Sea Fisheries (Amendment) Act , 1955

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Board” means An Bord Iascaigh Mhara;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Agriculture.

##### 2 Superannuation of staff of An Bord Iascaigh Mhara.

**2.**—(1) The Board shall prepare and submit to the Minister a scheme or schemes for the granting of superannuation allowances by way of pension or gratuity or both for its permanent staff.

(2) A scheme submitted to the Minister under this section, if approved of by the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister for Finance, shall be deemed to have come into operation on the 1st day of July, 1953, and shall be carried out by the Board in accordance with its terms.

(3) The Board may at any time, with the approval of the Minister, given with the concurrence of the Minister for Finance, amend a scheme under this section.

(4) A scheme submitted and approved of under this section shall fix the time and conditions of retirement for all persons to whom allowances are payable under the scheme, and different times and conditions may be fixed in respect of different classes of persons.

(5) If any dispute arises as to the claim of any person to, or the amount of, any allowance payable in pursuance of a scheme under this section, such dispute shall be submitted to the Minister who shall refer it to the Minister for Finance, whose decision thereon shall be final.

##### 3 Laying of scheme before Oireachtas.

**3.**—Every scheme under this Act shall be laid before each House of the Oireachtas as soon as may be after it is approved of and if either House, within the next twenty-one days on which that House has sat after the scheme is laid before it, passes a resolution annulling the scheme, the scheme shall be annulled accordingly, but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.

##### 4 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Sea Fisheries (Amendment) Act, 1955.

(2) The Sea Fisheries Act, 1952 (No. 7 of 1952), and this Act shall be construed as one and may be cited together as the Sea Fisheries Acts, 1952 and 1955.
