---
title: "Electricity (Supply)(Amendment) Act , 1971"
identifier: "IE-1971-act-18"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1971-07-21"
last_updated: "1971-07-21"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1971/act/18"
title_ga: "An tAcht Leictreachais (Soláthar)(Leasú), 1971"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1971/18"
---
# Electricity (Supply)(Amendment) Act , 1971

##### 1 Advances to Board for rural electrification.

**1.**—(1) The Minister for Finance may, on the recommendation of the Minister, advance moneys to the Board out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof for the electrification of rural areas.

(2) The total amount advanced to the Board under this section shall not exceed ten million pounds.

(3) The moneys advanced to the Board under this section by the Minister for Finance shall be repaid to the Central Fund out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas at such time or times as the Minister for Finance shall direct.

##### 2 Amendment of section 2 of Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1954.

**2.**—Section 2 of the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1954, is hereby amended—

(*a*) by the substitution for subsection (1) of the following subsection—

“(1) The total expenditure of the Board for general purposes, that is to say for all capital purposes shall not exceed four hundred and fifty million pounds.”, and

(*b*) by the insertion in subsection (2) after subparagraph (*f*) of the following—

“(*g*) expenditure on the electrification of rural areas.”.

##### 3 Repeals.

**3.**—The enactments mentioned in the Schedule to this Act are hereby repealed to the extent specified in the third column of that Schedule.

##### 4 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1971.

(2) The Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1970, and this Act may be cited together as the Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1971.

(3) The Acts and this Act shall be construed together as one Act.

## SCHEDULE

| Number and Year | Short Title | Extent of Repeal |
| --- | --- | --- |
| No. 20 of 1955. | Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1955. | Section 2. |
| No. 35 of 1958. | Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1958. | Section 2. |
| No. 24 of 1962. | Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1962. | Subsections (1), (2) and (3) of section 5. |
