---
title: "Dairy Produce (Amendment) Act , 1947"
identifier: "IE-1947-act-16"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1947-07-09"
last_updated: "1947-07-09"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1947/act/16"
title_ga: "An tAcht Tora Déiríochta (Leasú), 1947"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1947/16"
---
# Dairy Produce (Amendment) Act , 1947

##### 1 Minister.

**1.**—In this Act, the expression “the Minister” means the Minister for Agriculture.

##### 2 Licences.

**2.**—(1) The Minister may, if in his opinion the special circumstances of the case justify him in so doing, grant to the proprietor of premises registered in the register of cream-separating stations, a licence exempting him from the provisions of section 17 of the Dairy Produce Act, 1924 (No. 58 of 1924), as amended by section 2 of the Dairy Produce (Amendment) Act, 1934 (No. 34 of 1934), subject to such conditions and for such time (not extending beyond five years from the passing of this Act) as the Minister thinks proper.

(2) Section 17 of the Dairy Produce Act, 1924 (No. 58 of 1924), shall not apply to anything done by the proprietor of premises registered in the register of cream-separating stations under and in accordance with a licence granted to him under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The Minister may revoke a licence granted under subsection (1) of this section.

##### 3 Repeals.

**3.**—The enactments mentioned in the second column of the Schedule to this Act are hereby repealed to the extent specified in the third column of that Schedule.

##### 4 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Dairy Produce (Amendment) Act, 1947.

(2) This Act, the Dairy Produce Act, 1924, the Dairy Produce Act, 1931, the Dairy Produce (Amendment) Act, 1934, and the Dairy Produce (Amendment) Act, 1941, may be cited together as the Dairy Produce Acts, 1924 to 1947.

(3) The Dairy Produce Acts, 1924 to 1947 shall be construed together as one Act.

## SCHEDULE. Enactments Repealed.

| Number and Year | Short title | Extent of Repeal |
| --- | --- | --- |
| No. 35 of 1927 | The Dairy Produce (Amendment) Act, 1927. | The whole Act |
| No. 29 of 1931 | The Dairy Produce Act, 1931 | Section 10 |
| No. 34 of 1934 | The Dairy Produce (Amendment) Act, 1934. | Section 8. |
| No. 19 of 1937 | The Dairy Produce (Amendment) Act, 1937. | The whole Act |
