---
title: "Rent Restrictions (Continuance and Amendment) Act , 1954"
identifier: "IE-1954-act-34"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1954-12-09"
last_updated: "1954-12-09"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1954/act/34"
title_ga: "An tAcht Srianta Cíosa (Buanú agus Leasú), 1954"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1954/34"
---
# Rent Restrictions (Continuance and Amendment) Act , 1954

##### 1 Continuance of Act of 1946.

**1.**—The Rent Restrictions Act, 1946 (No. 4 of 1946), shall continue in operation until the 31st day of December, 1955.

##### 2 Lawful addition for certain repairs by landlord.

**2.**—(1) Where the landlord, during the period comprising the two years 1954 and 1955, expends an amount in excess of two-thirds of the basic rent of controlled premises on putting the premises into a reasonable state of repair, a sum calculated in accordance with the scale set out in the schedule to the Rent Restrictions (Amendment) Act, 1949 (No. 24 of 1949), shall be a lawful addition to the basic rent of the premises.

(2) Accordingly, the Rent Restrictions Act, 1946 (No. 4 of 1946), as amended by the Rent Restrictions (Continuance and Amendment) Act, 1950 (No. 28 of 1950), the Rent Restrictions (Continuance and Amendment) Act, 1952 (No. 20 of 1952), and the Rent Restrictions (Continuance and Amendment) Act, 1953 (No. 34 of 1953), is hereby further amended by the insertion, in paragraph (*g*) of subsection (2) of section 11 and in paragraph (*e*) of subsection (2) of section 17, of “or 1954 and 1955” immediately after “1953 and 1954”.

##### 3 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Rent Restrictions (Continuance and Amendment) Act, 1954.

(2) The collective citation, the Rent Restrictions Acts, 1946 to 1954, shall include this Act and those Acts and this Act shall be construed together as one Act.
