---
title: "Defence (Amendment) Act , 1979"
identifier: "IE-1979-act-1"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1979-02-20"
last_updated: "1979-02-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1979/act/1"
title_ga: "An tAcht Cosanta (Leasú), 1979"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1979/1"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Defence (Amendment) Act , 1979

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act ” means the Defence Act, 1954.

##### 2 Amendment of section 2 of Principal Act.

**2.**—Section 2 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by—

(*a*) the substitution for the definition of “flag officer” of the following definition:

“the expression ‘flag officer’ means an officer holding the commissioned naval rank of commodore or higher commissioned naval rank;”,

and

(*b*) the substitution for the definition of “general officer” of the following definition:

“the expression ‘general officer’ means an officer holding the commissioned army rank of brigadier-general or higher commissioned army rank;”.

##### 3 Amendment of section 24 of Principal Act.

**3.**—Section 24 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution for subsection (3) of the following subsection:

“(3) For the purposes of this Act—

(*a*) the commissioned army rank set out in column (2) of the Second Schedule to this Act at any reference number (being reference number 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9) shall be deemed to correspond to the commissioned naval rank set out in column (3) of the said Second Schedule at that reference number;

(*b*) the commissioned army rank set out in column (2) of the said Second Schedule at reference number 10 shall be deemed to correspond to each of the commissioned naval ranks set out in column (3) of the said Second Schedule at reference number 10;

(*c*) the commissioned naval rank set out in column (3) of the said Second Schedule at any reference number (being reference number 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9) shall be deemed to correspond to the commissioned army rank set out in column (2) of the said Second Schedule at that reference number;

(*d*) each of the commissioned naval ranks set out in column (3) of the said Second Schedule at reference number 10 shall be deemed to correspond to the commissioned army rank set out in column (2) of the said Second Schedule at reference number 10.”.

##### 4 Amendment of Second Schedule to Principal Act.

**4.**—The Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution for the Second Schedule thereto of the following Schedule:

“SECOND SCHEDULE

| Reference Number | Army Ranks | Naval Ranks |
| --- | --- | --- |
| (1) | (2) | (3) |
| 1. | Ginearál or (in English) General. | — |
| 2. | Lefteanant-Ghinearál or (in English) Lieutenant-General. | — |
| 3. | Maor-Ghinearál or (in English) Major-General. | Seach-Aimiréal or (in English) Rear-Admiral. |
| 4. | Briogáidire-Ghinearál or (in English) Brigadier-General. | Ceannasóir or (in English) Commodore. |
| 5. | Cornal or (in English) Colonel. | Captaen or (in English) Captain. |
| 6. | Lefteanant-Chornal or (in English) Lieutenant-Colonel. | Ceannasaí or (in English) Commander. |
| 7. | Ceannfort or (in English) Commandant. | Lefteanant-Cheannasaí or (in English) Lieutenant-Commander. |
| 8. | Captaen or (in English) Captain. | Lefteanant or (in English) Lieutenant. |
| 9. | Lefteanant or (in English) Lieutenant. | Fo-Lefteanant or (in English) Sub-Lieutenant. |
| 10. | Dara-Lefteanant or (in English) Second-Lieutenant. | Meirgire or (in English) Ensign. Meánloingseach or (in English) Midshipman. |

”.

##### 5 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Defence (Amendment) Act, 1979.

(2) The Defence Acts, 1954 and 1960, and this Act shall be construed together and may be cited together as the Defence Acts, 1954 to 1979.
