---
title: "Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Amendment) Act , 1940"
identifier: "IE-1940-act-33"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1940-12-11"
last_updated: "1940-12-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1940/act/33"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Pinsin do Bhaintreacha agus do Dhílleachtaithe (Leasú), 1940"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1940/33"
---
# Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Amendment) Act , 1940

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Widows' and Orphans' Pensions Act, 1935 (No. 29 of 1935), as amended by the Widows' and Orphans' Pensions Act, 1937 (No. 11 of 1937).

##### 2 Amendment of section 10 of the Principal Act.

**2.**—Sub-section (2) of section 10 (which relates to composition and rates of widows' (contributory) pensions) of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the deletion of the words “during the period of five years commencing on the second appointed day”, and the Principal Act shall be construed and have effect accordingly.

##### 3 Amendment of section 12 of the Principal Act.

**3.**—Sub-section (2) of section 12 (which relates to rates of orphans' (contributory) pensions) of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the deletion of the words “during the period of five years commencing on the second appointed day”, and the Principal Act shall be construed and have effect accordingly.

##### 4 Amendment of section 38 of the Principal Act.

**4.**—Paragraph (*b*) of sub-section (1) of section 38 (which relates to rates of contributions) of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the deletion of the words “during the period of five years commencing on the second appointed day”, and the Principal Act shall be construed and have effect accordingly.

##### 5 Amendment of the Second Schedule to the Principal Act.

**5.**—Part II of the Second Schedule (which relates to rates of contributions) to the Principal Act is hereby amended by the deletion of the words “during the period of five years commencing on the second appointed day”.

##### 6 Short title and collective citation.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Amendment) Act, 1940.

(2) The Widows' and Orphans' Pensions Acts, 1935 to 1937, and this Act may be cited together as the Widows' and Orphans' Pensions Acts, 1935 to 1940.
