---
title: "Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions)(Amendment) Act , 1934"
identifier: "IE-1934-act-30"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1934-07-26"
last_updated: "1934-07-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1934/act/30"
title_ga: "Acht na dTithe (Forálacha Airgid agus Forálacha Ilghnéitheacha) (Leasú), 1934"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1934/30"
---
# Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions)(Amendment) Act , 1934

##### 1 Definition.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1932 (No. 19 of 1932).

##### 2 Amendment of sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Principal Act.

**2.**—Sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Principal Act is hereby amended in the following respects, that is to say:—

(*a*) the reference to the 1st day of April, 1935, contained in sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (*b*) shall be construed as a reference to the 1st day of April, 1936;

(*b*) after the said sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (*b*) there shall be inserted a new sub-paragraph as follows, that is to say:—

“(iv) forty-five pounds, if the erection of such house shall have been commenced on or after the 12th day of May, 1932, and shall have been completed on or after the 1st day of April, 1936, but before the 1st day of April, 1937”;

(*c*) the reference to the 1st day of April, 1935, contained in each of paragraphs (*c*), (*d*), (*e*), (*f*), (*g*), (*h*) and (*i*) shall be construed as a reference to the 1st day of April, 1937,

and the said sub-section shall be construed and have effect accordingly.

##### 3 Increase of limit of grants.

**3.**—Sub-section (5) of section 5 of the Principal Act is hereby repealed and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that the aggregate amounts of grants to be made by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health under the said section 5 as amended by this Act shall not exceed the sum of one million, four hundred thousand pounds.

##### 4 Short title and citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment) Act, 1934.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) Acts, 1932 and 1934.
