---
title: "Health and Mental Treatment (Amendment) Act , 1958"
identifier: "IE-1958-act-37"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1958-12-23"
last_updated: "1958-12-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1958/act/37"
title_ga: "An tAcht Sláinte agus Cóireála Meabhair-Ghalar (Leasú), 1958"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1958/37"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Health and Mental Treatment (Amendment) Act , 1958

##### 1 Amendment of section 15 of Health Act, 1953.

**1.**—(1) In this section “the section” means section 15 of the Health Act, 1953.

(2) The reference in paragraph (*a*) of subsection (2) of the section to the Social Welfare Act, 1952, shall be construed as a reference to that Act as amended by any Act passed after the passing of that Act (including any Act passed after the passing of this Act).

(3) Paragraph (*b*) of subsection (2) of the Section is hereby amended by the substitution of “eight hundred pounds ” for “six hundred pounds”.

(4) Paragraph (*b*) of subsection (6) of the section is hereby amended by the addition thereto of the following provison:

“Provided that on any occasion when the yearly means of such person are to be decided—

(I) subject to paragraph (II) of this proviso, the yearly means of the son or daughter, if they do not exceed one hundred pounds, shall be wholly disregarded and, if they exceed one hundred pounds, shall be disregarded to the extent of one hundred pounds;

(II) where a total of more than three hundred pounds would, apart from this paragraph, fall to be disregarded by virtue of paragraph (I) of this proviso, three hundred pounds only shall be so disregarded.”

(5) Subsection (9) of the section is hereby amended by the substitution of “eight hundred pounds” for “six hundred pounds”.

(6) The references to the section in other sections of the Health Act, 1953 (including the references thereto contained in the amendments of the Mental Treatment Act, 1945, set out in section 71 of the Health Act, 1953) shall be construed as references to the section as amended by this Act.

##### 2 Amendment of section 279A of Mental Treatment Act, 1945.

**2.**—Section 279A of the Mental Treatment Act, 1945 (being the section inserted in that Act by subsection (11) of section 71 of the Health Act, 1953) is hereby amended by the substitution of “eight hundred pounds ” for “six hundred pounds”.

##### 3 Collective citations and commencement.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Health and Mental Treatment (Amendment) Act, 1958.

(2) The Health Acts, 1947 to 1957, and section 1 of this Act may be cited together as the Health Acts, 1947 to 1958.

(3) The Mental Treatment Acts, 1945 to 1957, and section 2 of this Act may be cited together as the Mental Treatment Acts, 1945 to 1958.

(4) This Act shall come into operation on such day as the Minister for Health appoints by order.
