---
title: "Connaught Rangers (Pension) Act , 1961"
identifier: "IE-1961-act-5"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1961-03-21"
last_updated: "1961-03-21"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1961/act/5"
title_ga: "An tAcht um na Connaught Rangers (Pinsin), 1961"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1961/5"
---
# Connaught Rangers (Pension) Act , 1961

##### 1 Increase of service pensions and disability pensions.

**1.**—(1) A pension to which this section applies shall be increased by five per cent.

(2) This section applies to—

(*a*) a service pension payable under the Connaught Rangers (Pensions) Acts, 1936 to 1960, and

(*b*) a disability pension so payable.

(3) An increase under this section shall have effect from (and inclusive of) the 1st day of August, 1960.

##### 2 Restoration of certain forfeited pensions.

**2.**—(1) Where a pension under section 3 of the Connaught Rangers (Pensions) Act, 1936, has been forfeited under section 16 of that Act, the Minister may by order, made with the consent of the Minister for Finance, restore such pension in whole or in part.

(2) Where a pension is restored in part under subsection (1) of this section, the Minister may by order, made with the consent of the Minister for Finance, restore the balance of such pension.

(3) Payment of any pension or part of any pension which has been restored under this section shall be made from such date (not being earlier than the date of the order restoring it) as the Minister may determine.

(4) In this section “the Minister” means the Minister for Defence.

##### 3 Short title and collective citation.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Connaught Rangers (Pensions) Act, 1961.

(2) The Connaught Rangers (Pensions) Acts, 1936 to 1960, and this Act may be cited together as the Connaught Rangers (Pensions) Acts, 1936 to 1961.
