---
title: "Sea Fisheries (Amendment) Act , 1963"
identifier: "IE-1963-act-21"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1963-07-16"
last_updated: "1963-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1963/act/21"
title_ga: "An tAcht Iascaigh Mhara (Leasú), 1963"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1963/21"
---
# Sea Fisheries (Amendment) Act , 1963

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Board” means An Bord Iascaigh Mhara;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Lands;

“the Principal Act” means the Sea Fisheries Act, 1952.

##### 2 Waiver of repayment by the Board of advances.

**2.**—Where any sum has, whether before or after the passing of this Act, been advanced under section 18 of the Principal Act, the following provisions shall, notwithstanding anything contained in that Act, have effect:

(*a*) the Minister for Finance may, at any time, on the recommendation of the Minister, waive the repayment by the Board of the whole or part of—

(i) such sum, or

(ii) the balance thereof remaining unrepaid;

(*b*) thereupon—

(i) the amount repayment of which has been waived shall cease to be repayable by the Board,

(ii) interest which, apart from this subparagraph, would after the day of the waiver, have become payable by the Board on such amount shall not be payable.

##### 3 Repayment of amounts repayment of which by the Board has been waived.

**3.**—(1) Any amount repayment of which by the Board has been waived under this Act shall be repaid to the Minister for Finance out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

(2) Where any repayment has been made under this section to the Minister for Finance, it shall be paid into the Exchequer.

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Sea Fisheries (Amendment) Act, 1963.

(2) The Sea Fisheries Acts, 1952 to 1959, and this Act may be cited together as the Sea Fisheries Acts, 1952 to 1963.
