---
title: "Poor Relief (Dublin) Act , 1929"
identifier: "IE-1929-act-40"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1929-12-20"
last_updated: "1929-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1929/act/40"
title_ga: "Acht Fóirithin na mBocht (Baile Átha Cliath), 1929"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1929/40"
---
# Poor Relief (Dublin) Act , 1929

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) This Act shall be construed as one with the Poor Relief (Ireland) Acts, 1838 to 1914.

(2) In this Act, save where the context otherwise requires—

the expression “the Minister” means the Minister for Local Government and Public Health;

the expression “union to which this Act applies” means and includes any union wholly or partly situate in the County or County Borough of Dublin;

the expression “relief under this Act” means and includes—

(*a*) relief granted out of the workhouse of a union to a person to whom, save for the provisions of this Act, relief could not have been granted otherwise than in such workhouse, and

(*b*) the payment under this Act of the expenses of removing any person from a union.

(3) Every reference in this Act to a board of guardians shall in its application to a board of guardians which has been dissolved by order of the Minister made in pursuance of section 12 of the Local Government (Temporary Provisions) Act, 1923 (No. 9 of 1923), or of section 72 of the Local Government Act, 1925 (No. 5 of 1925), be construed as a reference to the person or persons appointed for the time being to perform the duties of such board of guardians.

##### 2 Extension of power to relieve destitute poor persons out of the workhouse.

**2.**—The board of guardians of a union to which this Act applies may, at their discretion, relieve out of the workhouse of the union, any destitute poor person who could not heretofore under the provisions of the Poor Relief (Ireland) Acts, 1838 to 1914, have been relieved by them otherwise than in such workhouse, if such person at the time when he is so relieved has been resident for a continuous period of not less than two years either in the County of Dublin or in the County Borough of Dublin or in the said county and county borough.

##### 3 Power to pay for removal of person from union.

**3.**—A destitute poor person in a union to which this Act applies, who has not been resident either in the County of Dublin, or in the County Borough of Dublin, or in the said county and county borough for a continuous period of not less than two years, may apply to the board of guardians of such union to pay the reasonable expenses of his removal from such union to some other place, and, in such case, if the board are satisfied that such removal is likely to enable such person to support himself and his dependants by his own industry or other lawful means, and is generally for the benefit of such person and his dependants, they may, at their discretion, pay such reasonable expenses.

##### 4 Work may be required from person receiving relief under this Act.

**4.**—(1) A board of guardians may, as a condition of the granting of relief under this Act to any person, require such person to perform any task of work which in the opinion of the board is suitable to the sex, age, strength, and capacity of such person.

(2) For the purpose of the provision of work under this section, a board of guardians may—

(*a*) contract with any person or body of persons for the performance by the board for or on behalf of such person or body of persons of any work of public utility undertaken for the purpose of providing additional employment;

(*b*) subject to the consent of the Minister, purchase or lease and dispose of any land; and

(*c*) subject to any regulations of the Minister, purchase or hire and dispose of any plant, tools, equipment and materials.

##### 5 Recovery of Relief.

**5.**—Where relief under this Act is granted by a board of guardians to any person, and such person is not required as a condition of the granting of such relief to perform a task of work under the foregoing section the board may, if they shall so think fit, declare such relief or the cost thereof to be given by way of loan and any such relief or the cost thereof so declared to be given by way of loan shall be recoverable as a debt due to the board from the person to whom such relief shall have been granted or considered as granted under the Poor Relief (Ireland) Acts, 1838 to 1914, as amended by this Act.

##### 6 Expenses in Dublin Union.

**6.**—(1) For the purpose of this section the Dublin Union shall be divided into two portions (in this section referred to as “districts”) as follows, that is to say:—

(*a*) the area consisting of the County Borough of Dublin, the Urban District of Rathmines and Rathgar and the Urban District of Pembroke shall form one such district, and

(*b*) the remainder of the Dublin Union shall form the other such district.

(2) The whole of the expenses incurred by the Board of Guardians of the Dublin Union under this Act in or in relation to the granting of relief under this Act to destitute poor persons in either district shall be raised equally over such district.

(3) Where any expenses are incurred by the Board of Guardians of the Dublin Union in or in relation to the granting of relief under this Act to destitute poor persons in the said union generally or to destitute poor persons in an area including the whole or portion of one district and also the whole or portion of the other district, such expenses shall, subject to such regulations, if any, as may be made by the Minister in that behalf, be apportioned by the Board of Guardians between the two districts in such proportions as shall seem to the Board just and proper.

(4) The Minister may make regulations prescribing the manner in which the Board of Guardians of the Dublin Union shall make any apportionment required by the foregoing sub-section.

(5) No rate raised in any portion of the Dublin Union shall be invalidated solely by reason of a failure to apportion between the two districts any expenses incurred under this Act by the Board of Guardians or of an error in such an apportionment.

(6) The provisions of the enactments dealing with the estimating, demanding, and raising of the expenses of a board of guardians, shall, in so far as they relate to the Board of Guardians of the Dublin Union, be deemed to be modified so as to give effect to this section.

##### 7 Short title and duration.

**7.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Poor Relief (Dublin) Act, 1929.

(2) This Act shall come into operation on a day to be prescribed by the Minister not being later than fourteen days from the passing of this Act.

(3) This Act shall continue in operation until the 31st day of March, 1931, and no longer.
