---
title: "Electricity (Supply)(Amendment) Act , 1972"
identifier: "IE-1972-act-24"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1972-11-21"
last_updated: "1972-11-21"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1972/act/24"
title_ga: "An tAcht Leictreachais (Soláthar)(Leasú), 1972"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1972/24"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Electricity (Supply)(Amendment) Act , 1972

##### 1 Definition.

**1.**—In this Act “the Act of 1942” means the Electricity Supply Board (Superannuation) Act, 1942.

##### 2 Amendment of section 7 of Act of 1942.

**2.**—Section 7 of the Act of 1942 is hereby amended by the insertion after subsection (8) (inserted by the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1970) of the following subsection:

“(9) (*a*) In this subsection ‘previous service’, in relation to a person, means continuous service by the person in the employment of the Board up to the end of the last complete month of such service before the date of admission to the general employees superannuation scheme.

(*b*) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this section, a scheme (in this subsection referred to as an amending scheme) amending the general employees superannuation scheme may, with respect to any superannuation benefit, provide that if a person who was not in the service of the Board on the 1st day of April, 1943, becomes a contributing member, for the purposes of that benefit, before three months after the day on which the amending scheme is confirmed by the Minister, the Board shall make payments in respect of the previous service of the person to the fund set up for the purposes of the general employees superannuation scheme, and the person shall be entitled to reckon one half, but no more, of his previous service for that superannuation benefit.”

##### 3 Supplementary allowances for certain general employees.

**3.**—The Board may, if they so think fit, grant and pay to a person—

(*a*) to whom subsection (9) (inserted by this Act) of section 7 of the Act of 1942 applies,

(*b*) who pays to the Board a contribution equal to 1 per cent of the remuneration paid to him by the Board during the three years immediately before his retirement from the employment of the Board, and

(*c*) who is in receipt of a pension under the general employees superannuation scheme (within the meaning of the Act of 1942),

a supplementary allowance for his life the annual amount of which together with the annual amount of the pension aforesaid is equal to—

(i) one half of the annual rate of the remuneration paid to the person by the Board immediately before his retirement from the employment of the Board, or

(ii) the annual amount of the pension which would have been payable to the person aforesaid if the whole of his continuous service in the employment of the Board had been reckoned therefor,

whichever is the less.

##### 4 Removal of charges on Board property, and consequential repeals.

**4.**—Any charge on property of the Board which was created under the Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1954, is hereby removed, and section 16 of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1927, and section 15 of the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) (No. 2) Act, 1934, and so much of section 40 of the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1945, and sections 4 and 6 of the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1954, as create, or authorise the creation of, a charge on property of the Board, are hereby repealed.

##### 5 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Electricity (Supply) (Amendment) Act, 1972.

(2) The Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1971, and this Act may be cited together as the Electricity (Supply) Acts, 1927 to 1972, and shall be construed together as one Act.
