---
title: "Vocational Education (Amendment) Act , 1953"
identifier: "IE-1953-act-37"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1953-12-23"
last_updated: "1953-12-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1953/act/37"
title_ga: "An tAcht Gairm-Oideachais (Leasú), 1953"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1953/37"
---
# Vocational Education (Amendment) Act , 1953

##### 1 Increase of maximum annual liability of rating authorities.

**1.**—(1) The amount of the annual local contribution payable by the rating authority to a vocational education committee in respect of a local financial year commencing on or after the 1st day of April, 1954, shall not exceed a sum (in this Act referred to as the maximum annual liability) equal to a rate of—

(*a*) in the case of the vocational education committees for the county borough of Dublin, the boroughs of Sligo and Drogheda, the urban district of Tralee and the counties of Cork and Longford, eighteen pence in the pound,

(*b*) in every other case, fifteen pence in the pound,

on the rateable value of the area of charge at the commencement of the immediately preceding local financial year.

(2) Subsection (2A) of section 43 of, and the Third Schedule to, the Vocational Education Act, 1930 (No. 29 of 1930) (inserted therein by section 2 of the Vocational Education (Amendment) Act, 1950 (No. 33 of 1950)), are hereby repealed.

(3) Subsections (1) and (2) shall be deemed to have come into operation on the 1st day of November, 1953.

##### 2 Children's allowances for retired teachers and teachers' widows.

**2.**—(1) A vocational education committee may pay children's allowances, at such rates and subject to such conditions as the Minister for Education with the consent of the Minister for Finance may determine, in respect of children of retired or deceased teachers whose salary was differentiated on a marriage basis.

(2) Allowances may be paid under this section in respect of periods beginning on or after the 1st day of October, 1952.

##### 3 Children's allowance and rent allowance not pensionable remuneration.

**3.**—To remove doubts, it is hereby declared that children's allowances and allowances in aid of rent paid to a teacher by a vocational education committee are not reckonable as salary or emoluments for the purposes of the enactments relating to the superannuation of such teachers.

##### 4 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Vocational Education (Amendment) Act, 1953.

(2) The Vocational Education Acts, 1930 to 1950, and this Act may be cited together as the Vocational Education Acts, 1930 to 1953.

(3) The Vocational Education Acts, 1930 to 1950, and this Act shall be construed as one.
