---
title: "Continuation of Compensation Schemes Act, 1946 (Amendment) Act , 1949"
identifier: "IE-1949-act-15"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1949-07-15"
last_updated: "1949-07-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1949/act/15"
title_ga: "An tAcht um an Acht Buanuithe Scéimeanna Cúitimh, 1946 (Leasú), 1949"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1949/15"
---
# Continuation of Compensation Schemes Act, 1946 (Amendment) Act , 1949

##### 1 Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act, the expression “the Principal Act” means the Continuation of Compensation Schemes Act, 1946 (No. 19 of 1946).

##### 2 Amendment of section 1 of Principal Act.

**2.**—Section 1 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the addition thereto of the following subsection:—

“(5) The Schemes (including the Schemes as amended under this subsection) may be amended by a further scheme made by the Minister for Finance and any such amendment may be retrospective.”

##### 3 Amendment of section 2 of Principal Act.

**3.**—Section 2 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the addition thereto of the following subsection:—

“(5) The Schemes (including the Schemes as amended under this subsection) may be amended by a further scheme made by the Minister for Defence with the consent of the Minister for Finance and any such amendment may be retrospective.”

##### 4 Amendment of section 3 of Principal Act.

**4.**—Section 3 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the addition thereto of the following subsection:—

“(5) The Schemes (including the Schemes as amended under this subsection) may be amended by a further scheme made by the Minister for Justice with the consent of the Minister for Finance and any such amendment may be retrospective.”

##### 5 Short title and collective citation.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Continuation of Compensation Schemes Act, 1946 (Amendment) Act, 1949.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Continuation of Compensation Schemes Acts, 1946 and 1949.
