---
title: "Local Elections Postponement Act , 1925"
identifier: "IE-1925-act-42"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1925-12-29"
last_updated: "1925-12-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1925/act/42"
title_ga: "An tAcht chun Toghacháin Áitiúla do chur ar Ath-ló, 1925"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1925/42"
---
# Local Elections Postponement Act , 1925

##### 1 Application of Act.

**1.**—This Act applies to every council, board of commissioners, board of guardians, or other local body the statutory election of the members of which was postponed by or under the Local Elections Postponement Act, 1922 (No. 4 of 1922), as amended by subsequent legislation.

##### 2 Postponement of elections due in 1926.

**2.**—Every statutory election of members of a local body to which this Act applies which but for this Act would have been held in the year 1926 is hereby postponed until the year 1928.

##### 3 Computation of periods of office or time.

**3.**—Section 7 of the Local Elections Postponement Act, 1922 (No. 4 of 1922), is hereby repealed and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that in the case of every local body to which this Act applies every period of office or other period of time required by law to be computed from or by reference to the date of a statutory election postponed by or under the Local Elections Postponement Act, 1922, as amended by subsequent legislation (other than periods relating to the first meeting after a statutory election) shall be computed from the date on which such election was actually held and not from the date on which such election would have been held if the said Act had not been passed.

##### 4 Elections of mayors of boroughs.

**4.**—(1) During the period from the passing of this Act until the holding of the statutory elections postponed by this Act, sub-sections (10) and (11) of section 94 of the Local Government (Ireland) Act, 1898, shall not apply to the council of a borough to which this Act applies, and in lieu of those sub-sections the following provisions of this section shall apply to every such council during the said period.

(2) A quarterly meeting of every such council shall be held at noon on every 30th day of June during the said period and also at such hour on such other three days before the 15th day of June next following as the council at the quarterly meeting on the 30th day of June decide.

(3) The first business transacted at every such quarterly meeting on the 30th day of June shall be the election of the mayor, and the outgoing mayor shall retire and the newly elected mayor shall come into office on the said 30th day of June or as soon thereafter as the newly elected mayor has made a declaration accepting the office.

##### 5 Short title and citation.

**5.** This Act may be cited as the Local Elections Postponement Act, 1925.
