---
title: "Holy Cross Abbey (County Tipperary) Act , 1969"
identifier: "IE-1969-act-7"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1969-04-29"
last_updated: "1969-04-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1969/act/7"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Mainistir na Croise Naofa (Contae Thiobraid Árann), 1969"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1969/7"
---
# Holy Cross Abbey (County Tipperary) Act , 1969

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the church” means the Abbey Church situated at Holycross in the county of Tipperary, North Riding, and vested in the Commissioners and includes any structure or building the restoration of which, in the opinion of the Commissioners, is necessary to enable the said Abbey Church to be restored by them under section 2 of this Act;

“the Commissioners” means the Commissioners of Public Works in Ireland.

##### 2 Restoration of church.

**2.**—(1) The Commissioners may, if they think fit, restore the church for use for ecclesiastical purposes.

(2) For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared that the Commissioners, in making a lease or granting a licence in respect of the church under and in accordance with section 17 of the National Monuments (Amendment) Act, 1954, may make such lease or grant such licence subject to a condition requiring the payment to the Commissioners of an amount equal to the whole or part of the expenses incurred or to be incurred by the Commissioners in restoring the church under subsection (1) of this section and any such amount may, if the Commissioners think fit, be paid in instalments.

##### 3 Amendment of section 25(1) of Irish Church Act, 1869.

**3.**—Section 25 (1) of the Irish Church Act, 1869, shall not operate to prevent the Commissioners restoring the church under section 2 of this Act and shall, in so far as it requires the church not to be used as a place of public worship, cease to have effect.

##### 4 Expenses.

**4.**—Any expenses incurred by the Commissioners under this Act, shall to such extent as may be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

##### 5 Short title.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Holycross Abbey (County Tipperary) Act, 1969.
