---
title: "Teachers' Superannuation Act , 1928"
identifier: "IE-1928-act-32"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1928-11-30"
last_updated: "1928-11-30"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1928/act/32"
title_ga: "Acht Aois-liúntais na Múinteoirí, 1928"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1928/32"
---
# Teachers' Superannuation Act , 1928

##### 1 Definition.

**1.**—In this Act the word “teacher” includes a person who was a secondary teacher on the 1st day of January 1927 and ceased to be such teacher after that date and before the passing of this Act, and also includes a person who was formerly a teacher and while he was a teacher was appointed to a pensionable post in the Civil Service of Saorstát Eireann and at the passing of this Act holds the same or a similar post in the said Civil Service.

##### 2 Preparation of superannuation scheme.

**2.**—(1) The Minister for Education may, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, prepare in relation to any particular class or classes of teachers a scheme (in this Act referred to as a superannuation scheme) with the object of providing pensions and gratuities for or in respect of the class or classes of teacher to whom such scheme applies and (subject to confirmation thereof under this Act) carry such scheme into execution.

(2) Different superannuation schemes may be prepared and (subject as aforesaid) be carried into execution by the Minister for Education in relation to different classes of teachers.

##### 3 Contents of superannuation scheme.

**3.**—(1) A superannuation scheme may contain provisions in relation to all or any of the following matters, that is to say:—

(*a*) the setting up of a pension fund for the purposes of such scheme and the administration of such fund;

(*b*) the payment into such fund by teachers to whom such scheme applies of such contributions as may be prescribed by such scheme;

(*c*) the payment into such fund of such moneys as may be provided by the Oireachtas for the purposes of such scheme;

(*d*) the payment out of such fund to or in respect of teachers to whom such scheme applies of pensions and gratuities at such rates in such manner and on such conditions and restrictions (including restrictions on alienation) as may be prescribed by such scheme.

(2) A superannuation scheme may authorise the deduction of such sums as may be prescribed by such scheme from or in respect of salaries or other payments payable to teachers to whom such scheme applies and the payment of the sums so deducted into the pension fund set up under such scheme.

(3) A superannuation scheme may (in addition to or without the deductions mentioned in the foregoing sub-section) authorise the deduction of such sums as may be prescribed by such scheme from any grants payable in respect of schools in which teachers to whom such scheme applies are employed and the payment of the sums so deducted into the pension fund set up under such scheme.

(4) Where a superannuation scheme is expressed to apply to any class of teachers to whom the National School Teachers (Ireland) Act, 1879, applies, such scheme may be in addition to or in substitution for the provisions of the said Act as amended by the Pensions (Increase) Act, 1920, relating to such class of teachers and may revoke or amend such provisions accordingly.

##### 4 Teacher appointed to Civil Service.

**4.**—A superannuation scheme may in regard to persons to whom such scheme applies appointed to pensionable posts in the Civil Service of Saorstát Eireann, make special provision for the award of pensions to some or all such persons in respect of their service as teachers and may provide for the assessment and payment of any such pension being postponed until the person to whom it is awarded leaves the said Civil Service.

##### 5 Confirmation of scheme by Oireachtas.

**5.**—No superannuation scheme shall come into force unless and until it has been laid before each House of the Oireachtas and has been confirmed by resolution of each such House.

##### 6 Revocation and amendment of superannuation scheme.

**6.**—A superannuation scheme may be revoked or amended by a subsequent superannuation scheme made and confirmed in the like manner as the original scheme.

##### 7 Expenses.

**7.**—All expenses incurred in carrying this Act into execution shall, to such extent as may be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

##### 8 Short title.

**8.**—This Act may be cited as the Teachers' Superannuation Act, 1928.
