---
title: "Marriages Act , 1936"
identifier: "IE-1936-act-47"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1936-11-27"
last_updated: "1936-11-27"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1936/act/47"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Póstaíocha, 1936"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1936/47"
---
# Marriages Act , 1936

##### 1 Amendment of section 7 of the Marriages (Ireland) Act, 1844.

**1.**—(1) Section 7 of the Marriages (Ireland) Act, 1844, shall be and is hereby amended by the substitution of the words “Minister for Local Government and Public Health” for the words “Lord Lieutenant” in both the places where the latter words occur in the said section.

(2) The amendment of the said section 7 effected by the foregoing sub-section of this section shall have and be deemed to have had effect as on and from the 6th day of December, 1922, and the said section 7 shall be construed and have effect and be deemed to have had, as on and from the said date, effect accordingly.

(3) In order to remove doubts, it is hereby declared and enacted that every approbation given or purported to be given, on or after the 6th day of December, 1922, and before the 14th day of February, 1936, by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health (including every approbation so given or purported to be given by that Minister under his former title of Minister for Local Government) of an appointment under the said section 7 shall be and be deemed always to have been a valid and effective approbation of such appointment for the purposes of the said section.

##### 2 Amendment of section 34 of the Matrimonial Causes and Marriage Law (Ireland) Amendment Act, 1870.

**2.**—(1) Section 34 of the Matrimonial Causes and Marriage Law (Ireland) Amendment Act, 1870, shall be and is hereby amended by the substitution of the words “Minister for Local Government and Public Health” for the words “Lord Lieutenant or other general governor or governors of Ireland” now contained in the said section.

(2) The amendment of the said section 34 effected by the foregoing sub-section of this section shall have and be deemed to have had effect as on and from the 6th day of December, 1922, and the said section 34 shall be construed and have effect and be deemed to have had, as on and from the said date, effect accordingly.

(3) In order to remove doubts, it is hereby declared and enacted that every approval given or purported to be given on or after the 6th day of December, 1922, and before the passing of this Act, by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health (including every approval so given or purported to be given by that Minister under his former title of Minister for Local Government) to a licence issued under the said section 34 shall be and be deemed always to have been a valid and effective approval of such licence for the purposes of the said section.

##### 3 Validation of licence of Church of Aughavas.

**3.**—The licence issued on the 10th day of December, 1934, by the Bishop of Kilmore and Elphin and Ardagh in respect of the Church of Aughavas in the Parish of Cloone and Diocese of Elphin and Ardagh (being a licence which was or purported to have been issued under section 34 of the Matrimonial Causes and Marriage Law (Ireland) Amendment Act, 1870, but was not approved of in the manner required by that section) shall be deemed for all purposes to have been duly approved of by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health in accordance with the said section 34 as amended by this Act, and accordingly the said licence shall not be or be deemed ever to have been invalid or ineffective by reason merely of such approval not having in fact been given.

##### 4 Operation of licence of the Parish Church of St. Thomas, Dublin.

**4.**—(1) The licence which was issued under section 34 of the Matrimonial Causes and Marriage Law (Ireland) Amendment Act, 1870, on the 28th day of April, 1936, by the Archbishop of Dublin in respect of the Parish Church of St. Thomas, Marlborough Street, Dublin, and was approved of under the said section by the Minister for Local Government and Public Health on the 4th day of May, 1936, shall be deemed for all purposes to have been issued by the said Archbishop and approved of by the said Minister in accordance with the said section on the 21st day of December, 1931, and accordingly the said licence shall have and be deemed always to have had effect as on and from the said 21st day of December, 1931.

(2) No marriage which was solemnized in the said Parish Church of St. Thomas, Marlborough Street, Dublin, on or after the 21st day of December, 1931, and before the 4th day of May, 1936, shall be or be deemed ever to have been invalid or ineffective by reason only of the fact that no licence under section 34 of the Matrimonial Causes and Marriage Law (Ireland) Amendment Act, 1870, had been issued and approved of in respect of the said Church in accordance with the said section 34 at the time when such marriage was solemnized therein.

##### 5 Short title.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Marriages Act, 1936.
