---
title: "Turf Development Act , 1961"
identifier: "IE-1961-act-46"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1961-12-20"
last_updated: "1961-12-20"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1961/act/46"
title_ga: "An tAcht Forbartha Móna, 1961"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1961/46"
---
# Turf Development Act , 1961

##### 1 Advances to Board out of Central Fund.

**1.**—(1) Section 53 of the Turf Development Act, 1946, is hereby amended by the substitution for subsection (1) (inserted therein by the Turf Development Act, 1959) of the following subsection:

“(1) For the purpose of enabling the Board to exercise or perform its functions, the Minister for Finance may, under this section and on the recommendation of the Minister, advance from time to time to the Board, out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof, such sums (not exceeding in the aggregate twenty-four million pounds) as the Board may from time to time request.”

(2) Section 1 of the Turf Development Act, 1959, is hereby repealed.

##### 2 Amendment of section 1 of Turf Development Act, 1957.

**2.**—Section 1 of the Turf Development Act, 1957 (which relates to certain borrowing powers of the Board) is hereby amended by the substitution of “twenty-four million pounds” for “nineteen million pounds” (inserted therein by the Turf Development Act, 1959).

##### 3 Sale and letting of houses built by Board.

**3.**—(1) The Board may sell, exchange, or otherwise dispose of houses built pursuant to a scheme under section 5 of the Turf Development Act, 1950, and not required by the Board for occupation by its servants.

(2) The Board may let to persons other than servants of the Board houses built pursuant to a scheme under the said section 5.

##### 4 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Turf Development Act, 1961.

(2) The Turf Development Acts, 1946 to 1959, and this Act shall be construed together as one Act and may be cited together as the Turf Development Acts, 1946 to 1961.
