---
title: "Post Office (Amendment) Act , 1969"
identifier: "IE-1969-act-18"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1969-07-22"
last_updated: "1969-07-22"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1969/act/18"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Oifig an Phoist (Leasú), 1969"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1969/18"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Post Office (Amendment) Act , 1969

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Act of 1908” means the Post Office Act, 1908;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Posts and Telegraphs.

##### 2 Power of Minister to fix rates of postage, with consent of Minister for Finance, and to provide for certain other matters.

**2.**—(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, the Minister may by warrant make regulations providing for all or any of the following:

(*a*) the fixing of rates of postage and other sums to be charged in respect of postal packets and the regulation of the scale of weights and the circumstances according to which those rates and sums are to be charged;

(*b*) the remission of any such rate or sum;

(*c*) the transmission by post without charge of postal packets of a specified class or classes and the manner in which any such postal packet shall be so transmitted;

provided that the highest rate of postage when prepaid for an inland packet of two or more registered newspapers with or without a supplement or supplements, shall not exceed the prepaid postage for an inland printed packet of the same weight.

(2) Regulations under subsection (1) (*a*) of this section shall be made by the Minister only with the consent of the Minister for Finance.

##### 3 Power of Minister to make regulations under sections 4 and 82 of Act of 1908.

**3.**—The powers vested in the Minister for Finance to make by warrant regulations under sections 4 and 82 of the Act of 1908 are hereby transferred to the Minister, provided that any regulations so made by the Minister by virtue of this section shall, in so far as they make provision for charges, fees or scales of weights or for the accounting for and paying over to any foreign state of any money received by the Minister, be made only with the consent of the Minister for Finance.

##### 4 Amendment of section 15 of Act of 1908.

**4.**—Section 15 of the Act of 1908, as amended by section 1 (2) of the Post Office and Telegraph Act, 1920, is hereby amended by the substitution of “any postal packets other than letters, those packets” and “any despatch or delivery” for “book packets, pattern or sample packets, and post cards, or any of them, those packets, or cards” and “the despatch or delivery next”, respectively.

##### 5 Construction of certain references in Act of 1908.

**5.**—Any reference in the Act of 1908, other than in sections 4, 82 and 83 thereof, to a warrant shall be construed as including a reference to a warrant made under or by virtue of this Act.

##### 6 Continuance of regulations.

**6.**—Every regulation made under section 2 (1) of the Act of 1908 and in force immediately before the passing of this Act shall continue in force and any such regulation and any other regulation made under the Act of 1908 and in force immediately before the passing of this Act may be amended or revoked as if made under or by virtue of this Act.

##### 7 Repeal.

**7.**—Section 2 (1) of the Act of 1908 is hereby repealed.

##### 8 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**8.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Post Office (Amendment) Act, 1969.

(2) The Post Office Acts, 1908 to 1951, and this Act may be cited together as the Post Office Acts, 1908 to 1969.

(3) This Act shall be construed as one with the Act of 1908.
