---
title: "Local Government (Dublin)(Amendment) Act , 1953"
identifier: "IE-1953-act-10"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1953-03-31"
last_updated: "1953-03-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1953/act/10"
title_ga: "An tAcht Rialtais Áitiúil (Baile Átha Cliath)(Leasú), 1953"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1953/10"
---
# Local Government (Dublin)(Amendment) Act , 1953

##### 1 Construction.

**1.**—(1) In this Act “the Order” means the City of Dublin (Extension of Boundary) Provisional Order, 1953, as confirmed by Act of the Oireachtas.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Local Government (Dublin) Acts, 1930 to 1945.

##### 2 Area of jurisdiction of coroner of county Dublin.

**2.**—So long as the person who at the commencement of the Order holds the office of coroner of the county continues to hold that office, his area of jurisdiction shall continue as if the Order had not come into force but, upon his ceasing by death or otherwise to hold that office, so much of that area as is included in the city by the Order shall be detached from the area of jurisdiction of the coroner of the county and be added to and thenceforward included in the area of jurisdiction of the coroner of the city.

##### 3 Area of jurisdiction of sheriff of county Dublin.

**3.**—So long as the person who at the commencement of the Order holds the office of sheriff of the county continues to hold that office, his area of jurisdiction shall continue as if the Order had not come into force but, upon his ceasing by death or otherwise to hold that office, so much of that area as is included in the city by the Order shall be detached from the area of jurisdiction of the sheriff of the county and be added to and thenceforward included in the area of jurisdiction of the sheriff of the city.

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Local Government (Dublin) (Amendment) Act, 1953.

(2) The Local Government (Dublin) Acts, 1930 to 1945, and this Act may be cited together as the Local Government (Dublin) Acts, 1930 to 1953.
