---
title: "Air Navigation and Transport (No. 2) Act , 1959"
identifier: "IE-1959-act-29"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1959-08-11"
last_updated: "1959-08-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1959/act/29"
title_ga: "An tAcht Aerloingseoireachta agus Aeriompair (Uimh. 2), 1959"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1959/29"
---
# Air Navigation and Transport (No. 2) Act , 1959

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Company” means Aer Rianta, Teoranta, being the company formed in pursuance of section 68 of the Principal Act;

“the Principal Act” means the Air Navigation and Transport Act, 1936.

##### 2 Increase of capital of the Company.

**2.**—Subsection (1) of section 21 of the Air Navigation and Transport Act, 1946, is hereby amended by the substitution of “£10,000,000 (ten million pounds) divided into ten million shares of one pound each” for “£2,000,000 (two million pounds) divided into two million shares of one pound each”, and any reference in Part IV of that Act to the said section 21 shall be construed as including a reference to that section as amended by this section.

##### 3 Restriction on State guarantee of debentures of the Company.

**3.**—The power to give guarantees with respect to debentures issued by the Company which is conferred on the Minister for Finance by section 75 of the Principal Act shall not be so exercised that the total amount of principal moneys the due payment of which stands at any time guaranteed pursuant to that section exceeds £5,000,000 (five million pounds).

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Air Navigation and Transport (No. 2) Act, 1959.

(2) The collective citation the Air Navigation and Transport Acts, 1936 to 1959, shall include this Act.
