---
title: "Merchant Shipping (Helm Orders) Act , 1932"
identifier: "IE-1932-act-32"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1932-12-16"
last_updated: "1932-12-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1932/act/32"
title_ga: "An tAcht Loingis Cheannaíochta (Orduithe Stiúrach), 1932"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1932/32"
---
# Merchant Shipping (Helm Orders) Act , 1932

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “Saorstát Eireann ship” means any ship whose port of registry is situate in Saorstát Eireann.

##### 2 Change in method of giving helm orders.

**2.**—(1) After the passing of this Act it shall not be lawful for any person on any Saorstát Eireann ship, when such ship is going ahead, either to give a helm or steering order containing the word “starboard” or the word “right” or any equivalent of either of those words unless such person intends that the head of such ship shall move to the right, or to give a helm or steering order containing the word “port” or the word “left” or any equivalent of either of those words unless such person intends that the head of the ship shall move to the left.

(2) Every person who does any act which is a contravention of this section shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding fifty pounds.

##### 3 Amendment of the Merchant Shipping Acts, 1894 to 1921.

**3.**—Every provision of the Merchant Shipping Acts, 1894 to 1921, which is inconsistent with or repugnant to the foregoing section of this Act is, to the extent of such inconsistency or repugnancy only, hereby repealed.

##### 4 Short title and construction.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Merchant Shipping (Helm Orders) Act, 1932.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Merchant Shipping Acts, 1894 to 1921, and those Acts and this Act may be cited together as the Merchant Shipping Acts, 1894 to 1932.
