---
title: "Standard Time Act , 1968"
identifier: "IE-1968-act-23"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1968-07-15"
last_updated: "1968-07-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1968/act/23"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Am Caighdeánach, 1968"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1968/23"
---
# Standard Time Act , 1968

##### 1 Standard time.

**1.**—(1) The time for general purposes in the State (to be known as standard time) shall be one hour in advance of Greenwich mean time throughout the year, and any reference in any enactment or any legal document (whether passed or made before or after the passing of this Act) to a specified point of time shall be construed accordingly unless it is otherwise expressly provided.

(2) Any enactment expressed to operate or apply during a period of summer time shall be construed as operating or applying during the period prescribed as the period of summer time by the Summer Time Act, 1925, and the Summer Time Order, 1926, that is to say, the period beginning at three o'clock in the morning of the day next following the third Saturday in the month of April or, if that day is Easter Day, beginning at that hour of the day next following the second Saturday in the month of April and, in either case, ending at that hour in the morning of the day next following the first Saturday in the month of October.

(3) Nothing in this section shall affect the use of Greenwich mean time for purposes of astronomy, meteorology, navigation or other purposes for which that time is adopted by international usage, or the construction of any document referring to a point of time in connection with any of those purposes.

##### 2 Short title, commencement and repeals.

**2.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Standard Time Act, 1968.

(2) This Act shall come into operation on the 27th day of October, 1968.

(3) The enactments mentioned in the second column of the Schedule to this Act are hereby repealed to the extent specified in the third column of that Schedule.

## SCHEDULE Enactments Repealed

| Session and Chapter or Number and Year | Short Title | Extent of Repeal |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 43 & 44 Vict., c. 9. | Statutes (Definition of Time) Act, 1880. | The whole Act. |
| 6 & 7 Geo. 5, c. 45. | Time (Ireland) Act, 1916. | The whole Act. |
| No. 8 of 1925. | Summer Time Act, 1925. | The whole Act. |
| No. 38 of 1937. | Interpretation Act, 1937. | Section 11 (*d*). |
