---
title: "Turf Development Act , 1965"
identifier: "IE-1965-act-9"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1965-06-29"
last_updated: "1965-06-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1965/act/9"
title_ga: "An tAcht Forbartha Móna, 1965"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1965/9"
---
# Turf Development Act , 1965

##### 1 Advances to Board out of Central Fund.

**1.**—(1) Section 53 of the Turf Development Act, 1946, is hereby amended by the substitution for subsection (1) (inserted therein by subsection (1) of section 1 of the Turf Development Act, 1961) of the following subsection:

“(1) For the purpose of enabling the Board to exercise or perform its functions, the Minister for Finance may, under this section and on the recommendation of the Minister, advance from time to time to the Board, out of the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof, such sums (not exceeding in the aggregate twenty-eight million pounds) as the Board may from time to time request.”

(2) Section 1 of the Turf Development Act, 1961, is hereby repealed.

##### 2 Amendment of section 1 of Turf Development Act, 1957.

**2.**—Section 1 of the Turf Development Act, 1957 (which relates to certain borrowing powers of the Board) is hereby amended by the substitution of “twenty-eight million pounds” for “twenty-four million pounds” (inserted therein by section 2 of the Turf Development Act, 1961).

##### 3 Repeal of section 4 of Turf Development Act, 1953.

**3.**—Section 4 of the Turf Development Act, 1953, is hereby repealed.

##### 4 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Turf Development Act, 1965.

(2) The Turf Development Acts, 1946 to 1961, and this Act shall be construed together as one Act and may be cited together as the Turf Development Acts, 1946 to 1965.
