---
title: "Trade Loans (Guarantee)(Amendment) Act , 1925"
identifier: "IE-1925-act-19"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1925-06-27"
last_updated: "1925-06-27"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1925/act/19"
title_ga: "An tAcht Iasachtaí Trádála (Urraíocht)(Leasú), 1925"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1925/19"
---
# Trade Loans (Guarantee)(Amendment) Act , 1925

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Act, 1924 (No. 41 of 1924).

##### 2 Extension of time for guarantees, etc., under Principal Act.

**2.**—(1) Sub-section (3) of section 1 of the Principal Act is hereby repealed and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that no guarantee shall be given under the said section 1 of the Principal Act after the 31st day of July, 1926.

(2) Sub-section (3) of section 2 of the Principal Act is hereby repealed, and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that no loan shall be granted and no guarantee shall be given under the said section 2 of the Principal Act after the 31st day of July, 1926.

##### 3 Laying of statement and particulars before the Oireachtas.

**3.**—The obligation imposed by section 6 of the Principal Act on the Minister for Industry and Commerce to lay before each House of the Oireachtas such statement and particulars as are mentioned in that section shall extend to and be performed in respect of every three months of any period during which guarantees may be given or loans may be granted under the Principal Act.

##### 4 Short title and citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Trade Loans (Guarantee) (Amendment) Act, 1925.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Trade Loans (Guarantee) Acts, 1924 and 1925.
