---
title: "Shop Hours (Drapery Trades, Dublin and Districts) Act , 1926"
identifier: "IE-1926-act-36"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1926-07-28"
last_updated: "1926-07-28"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1926/act/36"
title_ga: "An tAcht Uaireanta Siopaí (Trádálanna an Éadaigh i gCathair agus i gCeanntair Bhaile Átha Cliath, 1926"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1926/36"
---
# Shop Hours (Drapery Trades, Dublin and Districts) Act , 1926

##### 1 Construction.

**1.**—This Act shall be construed as one with the Shops Act, 1912 (hereinafter referred to as the Act of 1912), and all words and expressions to which special meanings are assigned by that Act shall respectively have those meanings in this Act.

##### 2 Application.

**2.**—This Act shall apply to every shop which is situate in any of the areas specified in the First Schedule to this Act, and in which is carried on the trade or business of draper, tailor, out-fitter, hatter, hosier, glover, boot and shoe dealer, or house-furnisher and upholsterer or any of them.

##### 3 Sales by auction.

**3.**—The provisions of this Act shall so far as they apply to sales by auction be construed, to apply to every auction which at any time during the course of its business includes the sale of goods ordinarily sold in a shop to which this Act applies: Provided that this section shall not apply and shall be deemed never to have applied to any sale by auction of forfeited pledges from a licensed pawnbroker by a divisional auctioneer in the county borough of Dublin under 28 Geo. III., cap. 49 (Irish).

##### 4 Closing hours.

**4.**—(1) Save as is otherwise provided by this Act, every shop to which this Act applies shall be closed for the serving of customers except during the hours of business specified in the Second Schedule to this Act.

(2) Notwithstanding the foregoing sub-section but subject to the provisions of the Act of 1912 in relation to the weekly half-holiday any shop to which this Act applies may be open for the serving of customers until ten o'clock in the evening on the Saturday next before Easter Sunday, the Saturday next before Whit Sunday, and the five week days next before Christmas Day.

##### 5 Saving for Act of 1912.

**5.**—The restrictions imposed by this Act on the opening of shops to which this Act applies shall be in addition to and not in substitution for the restrictions imposed by the provisions of the Act of 1912 in relation to the weekly half-holiday and accordingly those provisions shall apply to every such shop as fully as they would have applied if this Act had not been passed.

##### 6 Penalties.

**6.**—If any person contravenes the provisions of this Act he shall be guilty of an offence against this Act and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof—

(*a*) in the case of a first offence to a fine not exceeding one pound;

(*b*) in the case of a second offence to a fine not exceeding five pounds; and

(*c*) in the case of a third or subsequent offence to a fine not exceeding fifty pounds:

Provided that for the purposes of this section a conviction or convictions for an offence under the Act of 1925 shall be deemed to be and to have been a conviction or convictions for an offence under this Act,

##### 7 Re-enactment of sections 13 and 14 of Act of 1912.

**7.**—The provisions of sections 13 and 14 of the Act of 1912, as modified by section 21 of that Act, shall, so far as those provisions are applicable, have effect as if re-enacted in this Act, and in terms made applicable thereto.

##### 8 Period of operation.

**8.**—This Act shall come into operation on the 1st day of March, 1926, and shall remain in force until the 15th day of July, 1930, and shall then expire.

##### 9 Repeal.

**9.**—The Shop Hours (Drapery Trades, Dublin and Districts) Act, 1925 (No. 39 of 1925) is hereby repealed.

##### 10 Short title.

**10.**—This Act may be cited as the Shop Hours (Drapery Trades, Dublin and Districts) Act, 1926.

## FIRST SCHEDULE.

The County Borough of Dublin,

Rathmines Urban District,

Pembroke Urban District,

Blackrock Urban District,

Dun Laoghaire Urban District,

Dalkey Urban District,

Killiney and Ballybrack Urban District,

Howth Urban District.

## SECOND SCHEDULE.

| Day. |  | Hours of business. |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Monday and Tuesday | } | From 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. |
| Wednesday and Thursday |  |  |
| Friday |  | From 9 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. |
| Saturday |  | From 9 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. |
