---
title: "Housing (Amendment) Act , 1941"
identifier: "IE-1941-act-18"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1941-08-07"
last_updated: "1941-08-07"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1941/act/18"
title_ga: "Acht na dTithe (Leasú), 1941"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1941/18"
---
# Housing (Amendment) Act , 1941

##### 1 Amendment of sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1932.

**1.**—(1) Sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1932 (No. 19 of 1932), is hereby amended in the following respects and the said section shall be construed and have effect accordingly, that is to say:—

(*a*) the reference to the 1st day of April, 1935, contained in each of the paragraphs (*c*), (*d*), (*e*), (*f*), (*g*), and (*h*) of the said sub-section (1) shall be construed as a reference to the 1st day of April, 1942;

(*b*) each of the references to the 1st day of April, 1940, contained in paragraph (*j*) of the said sub-section (1) (being the paragraph inserted by paragraph (*c*) of section 2 of the Housing (Amendment) Act, 1939 (No. 3 of 1939) ) shall be construed as a reference to the 1st day of April, 1942.

(2) Sub-section (1) of section 1 of the Housing (Amendment) Act, 1940 (No. 10 of 1940), is hereby repealed.

(3) This section shall have and be deemed to have had effect as on and from the 1st day of April, 1941.

##### 2 Amendment of section 3 of the Labourers Act, 1936.

**2.**—Section 3 of the Labourers Act, 1936 (No. 24 of 1936), is hereby amended by the insertion before sub-section (2) thereof of the following sub-section, that is to say:—

“(1A) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 93 of the Irish Land Act, 1903, and of paragraph (*a*) of sub-section (1) of section 1 of the Labourers (Ireland) Act, 1919, a person who is working for hire shall not be prevented from being an agricultural labourer within the meaning of the Principal Acts solely by reason of the fact that he is not working for hire in a rural district.”

##### 3 Guarantee by certain local authorities of sums borrowed by building societies.

**3.**—(1) Any local authority to which this section applies may with the consent of the Minister and subject to such terms and conditions (if any) as he may impose, guarantee, either alone or jointly with any other person or persons, the payment of any sum borrowed by a building society and the interest on such sum.

(2) A local authority to which this section applies may, with the consent of the Minister, borrow for the purpose of fulfilling any guarantee given by them under this section in like manner as if such borrowing were for the purposes of the Small Dwellings Acquisition Acts, 1899 to 1931, and the provisions of the said Acts shall apply in relation to such borrowing in like manner as they apply in relation to borrowing for the purposes of the said Acts.

(3) The giving of a guarantee under this section by the Right Honourable the Lord Mayor, Aldermen and Burgesses of Dublin or the Corporation of Dun Laoghaire shall, for the purposes of the Local Government (Dublin) Acts, 1930 and 1935, be deemed to be a reserved function of the Right Honourable the Lord Mayor, Aldermen and Burgesses of Dublin or the Corporation of Dun Laoghaire (as the case may be).

(4) On and from the commencement of the County Management Act, 1940 (No. 12 of 1940) the giving of a guarantee under this section by the council of the County of Dublin shall, for the purposes of the said Act, be deemed to be a reserved function of the council of the county of Dublin.

(5) The expenses incurred by the council of the county of Dublin under this section shall be raised by means of the poor rate equally over the county health district of Dublin.

(6) In this section—

the expression “the Minister” means the Minister for Local Government and Public Health,

the expression “local authority to which this section applies” means any of the following local authorities, that is to say, the Right Honourable the Lord Mayor, Aldermen and Burgesses of Dublin, the Council of the county of Dublin, and the Corporation of Dún Laoghaire, and the expression “building society” means a society to which the Building Societies Acts, 1874 to 1936, apply.

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Housing (Amendment) Act, 1941.

(2) The Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) Acts, 1932 to 1940, and this Act may be cited together as the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) Acts, 1932 to 1941.

(3) The Labourers Acts, 1883 to 1937, and this Act may be cited together as the Labourers Acts, 1883 to 1941.
