---
title: "Vocational Education (Amendment) Act , 1970"
identifier: "IE-1970-act-15"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1970-08-05"
last_updated: "1970-08-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1970/act/15"
title_ga: "An tAcht Gairmoideachais (Leasú), 1970"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1970/15"
---
# Vocational Education (Amendment) Act , 1970

##### 1 Co-operation by vocational education committees with certain other schools regarding continuation and technical education.

**1.**—Subject to the consent of the Minister and to such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the parties, a vocational education committee may, jointly with a person maintaining such school as may be recognised by the Minister for the purposes of this section—

(*a*) establish and maintain in its area in accordance with the Vocational Education Acts, 1930 to 1962, a suitable system of continuation education and provide for the progressive development of that system,

(*b*) establish and maintain in its area continuation schools and technical schools,

(*c*) establish and maintain in its area such courses of instruction in the nature of continuation education and technical education as it considers necessary.

##### 2 Amendment of Section 108 of Vocational Education Act, 1930.

**2.**—Section 108 of the Vocational Education Act, 1930, is hereby amended by the substitution of the following subsection for subsection (4):

“(4) (*a*) The Minister shall by regulations provide for an election (in this subsection referred to as a new election) of members of a vocational education committee (in this subsection referred to as a dissolved committee) which has been dissolved under this section, to take place at any time not later than the end of the second election year after the dissolved committee has been so dissolved, and upon the completion of such new election all the properties, powers and duties of the dissolved committee shall vest in the committee so elected, notwithstanding that the same may have been transferred by the Minister under this section to any other body, persons, or person.

(*b*) Section 9 (2) of the Principal Act shall not apply to a new election.

(*c*) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, no election other than a new election shall take place in respect of a dissolved committee.”.

##### 3 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Vocational Education (Amendment) Act, 1970.

(2) The Vocational Education Acts, 1930 to 1962, and this Act may be cited together as the Vocational Education Acts, 1930 to 1970.

(3) The Vocational Education Acts, 1930 to 1962, and this Act shall be construed as one.
