---
title: "Maritime Jurisdiction (Amendment) Act , 1988"
identifier: "IE-1988-act-9"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1988-05-04"
last_updated: "1988-05-04"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1988/act/9"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Dhlínse Mhuirí (Leasú), 1988"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1988/9"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Maritime Jurisdiction (Amendment) Act , 1988

##### 1 “Principal Act”.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Maritime Jurisdiction Act, 1959.

##### 2 Extension of outer limit of territorial seas.

**2.**—(1) Section 3 (which specifies the outer limit of the territorial seas) of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution of “12 nautical miles” for “three nautical miles” and the said section 3, as so amended, is set out in *Part I* of the Table to this section.

(2) Section 4 (which specifies the baseline) of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution in paragraph (*b*) of subsection (1) of “12 nautical miles” for “three nautical miles” and the said paragraph (*b*), as so amended, is set out in *Part II* of the Table to this section.

(3) Section 14 (which provides for the adaptation of enactments) of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion in subsection (1) after “three miles” of “, three nautical miles” and the said subsection (1), as so amended, is set out in *Part III* of the Table to this section.

TABLE

3. For the purposes of this Act, the outer limit of the territorial seas is the line every point of which is at a distance of 12 nautical miles from the nearest point of the baseline.

(*b*) on any low-tide elevation situated wholly or partly at a distance not exceeding 12 nautical miles from the mainland or an island.

(1) References in any enactment to sea areas and waters within three miles, three nautical miles or one league of the coast or shore and cognate expressions shall be construed as references to sea areas and waters lying within the outer limit of the territorial seas.

##### 3 Short title, collective citation and commencement.

**3.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Maritime Jurisdiction (Amendment) Act, 1988.

(2) The Maritime Jurisdiction Acts, 1959 and 1964, and this Act may be cited together as the Maritime Jurisdiction Acts, 1959 to 1988.

(3) This Act shall come into operation on the 1st day of September, 1988.
