---
title: "Agricultural Produce (Cereals)(Amendment) Act , 1937"
identifier: "IE-1937-act-27"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1937-11-12"
last_updated: "1937-11-12"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1937/act/27"
title_ga: "An tAcht Tora Talmhaíochta (Arbhar)(Leasú), 1937"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1937/27"
---
# Agricultural Produce (Cereals)(Amendment) Act , 1937

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “the Minister” means the Minister for Industry and Commerce;

the expression “the Acts” means the Agricultural Produce (Cereals) Acts, 1933 to 1936;

the expressions “milling licence”, “preliminary quota period” and “quota year” have the meanings respectively assigned to them by the Acts.

##### 2 Exclusion of wheat milled into flour used in the manufacture of biscuits in calculating quantity of wheat milled into flour at licensed mills.

**2.**—Where the holder of a milling licence in respect of a mill satisfies the Minister that the flour, derived from a specified amount of wheat milled into flour at such mill during the preliminary quota period or any quota year for such mill, has been, or is intended to be, used in the manufacture of biscuits by a person engaged in the business of manufacturing biscuits for sale wholesale, the Minister may, if he thinks fit, direct that, in calculating for any of the purposes of the Acts the amount of wheat milled into flour at such mill during the preliminary quota period or such quota year (as the case may be), a quantity of wheat equal to the said specified amount shall not be taken into account, and any such direction shall have effect according to the tenor thereof.

##### 3 Amendment of section 30 of the Agricultural Produce (Cereals) Act, 1933.

**3.**—Section 30 of the Agricultural Produce (Cereals) Act, 1933 (No. 7 of 1933), as amended by section 9 of the Agricultural Produce (Cereals) Act, 1934 (No. 41 of 1934), is hereby amended by the insertion in sub-section (1) of the said section 30 of the following additional paragraph, that is to say:—

“(*d*) any sum payable to the Minister under paragraph (*a*) or paragraph (*b*) of this sub-section shall be a debt due and payable to the Minister and may be recovered as a simple contract debt in a court of competent jurisdiction,”

and the said section 30 shall be construed and have effect accordingly.

##### 4 Expenses of the Minister.

**4.**—All expenses incurred by the Minister in carrying this Act into effect shall, to such extent as shall be sanctioned by the Minister for Finance, be paid out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas.

##### 5 Short title and collective citation.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Agricultural Produce (Cereals) (Amendment) Act, 1937, and the Agricultural Produce (Cereals) Acts, 1933 to 1936, and this Act may be cited together as the Agricultural Produce (Cereals) Acts, 1933 to 1937.
