---
title: "Police Forces Amalgamation (Amendment) Act , 1926"
identifier: "IE-1926-act-10"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1926-03-11"
last_updated: "1926-03-01"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1926/act/10"
title_ga: "Acht Có-nasctha na bhFórsaí Póilíneachta (Leasú), 1926"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1926/10"
---
# Police Forces Amalgamation (Amendment) Act , 1926

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Principal Act” means the Police Forces Amalgamation Act, 1925 (No. 7 of 1925), and the expression “the amalgamated force” has the same meaning as it has in the Principal Act.

##### 2 Dublin police rate.

**2.**—Sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 16 of the Principal Act shall be construed and have effect and be deemed always to have had effect as if the words “on the 1st day of April, 1925,” were inserted in those sub-sections respectively in lieu of the words “next after the passing of this Act” now contained therein.

##### 3 Formation of representative bodies.

**3.**—(1) Section 17 of the Principal Act is hereby repealed and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that section 13 (which relates to the formation of representative bodies in the Gárda Síochána) of the Gárda Síochána Act, 1924 (No. 25 of 1924) shall apply to the amalgamated force and for the purpose of such application the expression “Gárda Síochána” where the same occurs in that section shall be construed as referring to the amalgamated force and the expression “this Act” where the same occurs in that section shall be construed as referring to the Principal Act.

(2) Sections 1 and 2 of the Constabulary and Police (Ireland) Act, 1919, are hereby repealed.

(3) All regulations relating to the formation of representative bodies of members of the amalgamated force or of any rank, class or section of such members which were made under any enactment prior to the Principal Act and are in force at the passing of this Act shall (notwithstanding the repeal of such enactment by the Principal Act or this Act) continue in force until superseded by regulations made under section 14 of the Principal Act, and in case of any of the first-mentioned regulations being so superseded in part only such regulation shall, until wholly so superseded, continue in force subject to such partial supersession.

##### 4 Short title, construction, and citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Police Forces Amalgamation (Amendment) Act, 1926.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Principal Act and that Act and this Act may be cited together as the Police Forces Amalgamation Acts, 1925 and 1926.
