---
title: "Transport Act , 1960"
identifier: "IE-1960-act-41"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1960-12-21"
last_updated: "1960-12-21"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1960/act/41"
title_ga: "An tAcht Iompair, 1960"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1960/41"
---
# Transport Act , 1960

##### 1 Closing of Royal Canal.

**1.**—(1) In this section—

“the Board” means Córas Iompair Éireann;

“the Canal” means the Royal Canal.

(2) The Board may close to navigation the Canal or any part thereof.

(3) The Board shall not close the Canal or any part thereof unless, at least two months before doing so, the Board has published in *Iris Oifigiúil* and in such newspapers, circulating in the district in which the Canal or the part is situate, as the Board thinks proper, notice of its intention to do so.

(4) The closure of the Canal or any part thereof shall not release the Board from any obligations (including obligations in regard to drainage or the prevention of flooding) to which the Board may be liable in regard to the Canal, or the part, other than the obligation to keep it open and in a fit condition for navigation.

(5) After the closure of the Canal or any part thereof the Board and the road authority within whose functional area any bridge over the Canal or the part is situate may enter into an agreement for the transfer of the bridge and the obligation to maintain it to that road authority, and may carry such agreement into effect.

(6) The functions of a road authority under subsection (5) of this section shall be a reserved function for the purposes of the enactments relating to that authority.

(7) Section 23 of the Transport Act, 1958, shall not apply in relation to the Canal.

##### 2 Short title.

**2.**—This Act may be cited as the Transport Act, 1960.
