---
title: "Electoral Act , 1941"
identifier: "IE-1941-act-28"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1941-12-16"
last_updated: "1941-12-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1941/act/28"
title_ga: "An tAcht Toghacháin, 1941"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1941/28"
---
# Electoral Act , 1941

##### 1 Prohibition of voting by minors.

**1.**—No person who has not attained the age of twenty-one years shall be entitled to vote at an election (whether a general election or a bye-election) of members or a member of Dáil Eireann.

##### 2 Amendment of section 29 of the Electoral Act, 1923.

**2.**—Section 29 of the Electoral Act, 1923, (No. 12 of 1923), is hereby amended as follows, that is to say:—

(*a*) a returning officer or his deputy may and, if so required on behalf of any candidate, shall put to any voter at the time of his tendering his vote and not afterwards the following question (either alone or in addition to either or both of the two questions mentioned in sub-section (1) of the said section 29) that is to say:—

“Have you attained the age of twenty-one years?”;

(*b*) if a person to whom the question set out in the foregoing paragraph of this section has been put answers that question in the negative, he shall not be permitted to vote;

(*c*) the words “and that I have attained the age of twenty-one years” are hereby added at the end of and shall form part of the oath or affirmation set out in sub-section (2) of the said section 29;

(*d*) sub-section (3) of the said section 29 shall be construed and have effect subject to the provisions of this section;

(*e*) the reasons given in sub-section (4) of the said section 29 shall include the reason that it appears to the returning officer or his deputy, upon putting the question set out in paragraph (*a*) of this section to a person tendering his vote, that such person has not attained the age of twenty-one years.

##### 3 Repeal.

**3.**—Section 25 of the Parliamentary Elections (Ireland) Act, 1823, is hereby repealed.

##### 4 Short title and citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Electoral Act, 1941.

(2) The Electoral Acts, 1923 to 1936, and this Act may be cited together as the Electoral Acts, 1923 to 1941.
