---
title: "Johnstown Castle Agricultural College (Amendment) Act , 1980"
identifier: "IE-1980-act-32"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1980-12-10"
last_updated: "1980-12-10"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1980/act/32"
title_ga: "Acht Choláiste Talmhaíochta Chaisleán Bhaile Sheonach (Leasú), 1980"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1980/32"
---
# Johnstown Castle Agricultural College (Amendment) Act , 1980

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Act of 1959” means the Johnstown Castle Agricultural College (Amendment) Act, 1959;

“the deposited map” means the Map of the Estate that was deposited by the Minister in the Ordnance Survey Office, Dublin, on the 22nd day of September, 1980, is sealed with the Official Seal of the Minister, is signed by the Minister and has at the top thereof the words and figures “Deposited for the purposes of any Act of the Oireachtas passed in the year 1980, to amend the Johnstown Castle Agricultural College (Amendment) Act, 1959, so as to permit the sale or transfer of parts of the estate and to provide for matters connected therewith”;

“the Estate” means the property commonly known as Johnstown Castle and Demesne in the County of Wexford;

“the Principal Act” means the Johnstown Castle Agricultural College Act, 1945.

##### 2 Application of section 14 (3) of the Agriculture (An Foras Talúntais) Act, 1958, to the Estate.

**2.**—Notwithstanding the provisions of section 9 of the Act of 1959, section 14 (3) of the Agriculture (An Foras Talúntais) Act, 1958, shall apply to—

(*a*) such part or parts of the Estate as are defined on the deposited map by being coloured green, and

(*b*) such part or parts of the Estate as may be leased from time to time to the State.

##### 3 The deposited map.

**3.**—(1) As soon as may be after the passing of this Act, the Minister shall cause a copy of the deposited map to be deposited in the Central Office of the High Court and the Circuit Court Office for the county of Wexford.

(2) The deposited map shall be retained in the Ordnance Survey Office, Dublin, and the copies of it deposited under subsection (1) of this section in the offices referred to in that subsection shall be retained in those offices.

(3) The deposited map or copies of it deposited under subsection (1) of this section shall be open for inspection free of charge in the offices in which they are deposited by any person at any time at which those offices respectively are open for the transaction of public business.

(4) The Director of Ordnance Survey shall prepare and supply to any person requesting it a copy of the deposited map or any particular part thereof and shall charge for the copy such sum as the Director may determine.

(5) *Prima facie* evidence of the deposited map or any specified part thereof may be given in any court or any legal proceedings by the production of a copy thereof purporting to be certified to be a copy by an officer of Ordnance Survey authorised in that behalf by the Director of Ordnance Survey, and it shall not be necessary to prove the signature of the officer or the fact that he was in fact such officer or was so authorised.

##### 4 Restriction of section 3 of the Act of 1959.

**4.**—Section 3 of the Act of 1959 shall not apply to any part of the Estate referred to in section 2 of this Act.

##### 5 Application of section 6 of the Act of 1959.

**5.**—Section 6 of the Act of 1959 shall continue on and after the commencement of this Act to apply in respect of any part of the Estate sold or leased by virtue of this Act.

##### 6 Application of sections 6, 7 and 8 of the Principal Act.

**6.**—Sections 6, 7 and 8 of the Principal Act, as applied by section 7 of the Act of 1959, shall continue on and after the commencement of this Act to apply in respect of the Estate and in respect of any part or parts of the Estate sold or leased by virtue of this Act.

##### 7 Short title and collective citation.

**7.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Johnstown Castle Agricultural College (Amendment) Act, 1980.

(2) The Principal Act, the Act of 1959 and this Act may be cited together as the Johnstown Castle Agricultural College Acts, 1945 to 1980.
