---
title: "Shop Hours (Drapery Trades Dublin and Districts) Act , 1925"
identifier: "IE-1925-act-39"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1925-07-16"
last_updated: "1925-07-16"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1925/act/39"
title_ga: "An tAcht Uaireanta Siopaí (Trádálanna an Éadaigh i gCathair agus i gCeanntair Bhaile Átha Cliath), 1925"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1925/39"
---
# Shop Hours (Drapery Trades Dublin and Districts) Act , 1925

##### 1 Construction.

**1.**—This Act shall be construed as one with the Shops Act, 1912, and all words and expressions to which special meanings are assigned by that Act shall respectively have those meanings in this Act.

##### 2 Area.

**2.**—The area to which this Act applies shall consist of:

The County Borough of Dublin

Rathmines Urban District

Pembroke Urban District

Blackrock Urban District

Dún Laoghaire (Kingstown) Urban District

Dalkey Urban District

Killiney and Ballybrack Urban District

Howth Urban District.

##### 3 Hour of closing on Saturday.

**3.**—Save as hereinafter provided no shop in the area to which this Act applies in which the trade of draper, tailor, outfitter, hatter, hosier, glover, boot and shoe dealer or house-furnisher and upholsterer, or any of them, is carried on shall remain open for the serving of customers on any Saturday after the hour of half-past seven o'clock in the evening: Provided that this section shall not apply to the Saturday next before Easter Sunday, the Saturday next before Whit Sunday and the Saturday next before Christmas Day.

##### 4 Penalties.

**4.**—If any person contravenes the provisions of this Act he shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding in the case of a first offence one pound, in the case of a second offence five pounds, and in the case of a third or subsequent offence twenty pounds:

Provided that nothing in this Act shall render a person liable to any penalty for serving after the closing hour specified in section 3 any customer who was in the shop before such closing hour.

##### 5 Re-enactment of sections 13 and 14 of the Shops Act 1912.

**5.**—The provisions of sections 13 and 14 of the Shops Act, 1912, as modified by section 21 of that Act, shall, so far as those provisions are applicable, have effect as if re-enacted in this Act and in terms made applicable thereto.

##### 6 Exemption.

**6.**—This Act shall not apply to a shop where the only persons employed at any time during the week are members of the employer's family dwelling in the building of which the shop forms a part or to which the shop is attached.

##### 7 Period of operation.

**7.**—This Act shall come into operation on the 15th day of July, 1925, and shall remain in force for a period of five years therefrom and shall then expire.

##### 8 Short title.

**8.**—This Act may be cited as the Shop Hours (Drapery Trades, Dublin and Districts) Act, 1925.
