---
title: "Broadcasting Authority (Amendment) Act , 1966"
identifier: "IE-1966-act-7"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1966-03-08"
last_updated: "1966-03-08"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1966/act/7"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Údarás Craolacháin (Leasú), 1966"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1966/7"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Broadcasting Authority (Amendment) Act , 1966

##### 1 Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Broadcasting Authority Act, 1960.

##### 2 Annual amounts to be paid to Authority by Minister.

**2.**—The Minister, with the approval of the Minister for Finance, may, in respect of each of the five consecutive financial years beginning with that ending on the 31st day of March, 1966, pay to the Authority out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas an amount equal to the total of the receipts in that year in respect of broadcasting licence fees less—

(*a*) any expenses certified by the Minister as having been incurred by him in that year in relation to the collection of those fees, and

(*b*) any expenses certified by the Minister as having been incurred by him in that year in respect of the performance of his functions under sections 12 and 12A of the Act of 1926 in relation to interfering with or injuriously affecting wireless telegraphy apparatus for receiving only.

##### 3 Change of corporate name of Authority.

**3.**—The corporate name of the Authority is hereby changed from “Radio Éireann” to “Radio Telefís Éireann”.

##### 4 Amendment of section 12 of Principal Act.

**4.**—Section 12 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion of the following paragraph after paragraph (ii) of subsection (2):

“(iiA) an appointment consisting of the promotion of a person who is already a servant of the Authority,”.

##### 5 Amendment of section 16 of Principal Act.

**5.**—Section 16 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion at the end of subsection (2) of the following paragraphs:

“(*l*) to arrange with other broadcasting authorities for the distribution, receipt, exchange and relay of programmes (whether live or recorded);

(*m*) subject to the consent of the Minister, to compile, publish and distribute, with or without charge, recorded aural and visual material;

(*n*) subject to the consent of the Minister, to provide services for and on behalf of Ministers of State.”

##### 6 Amendment of section 25 of Principal Act.

**6.**—Section 25 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion of the following subsections after subsection (1):

“(1A) Accounts kept in pursuance of this section shall be submitted annually by the Authority to the Comptroller and Auditor General for audit at such time as the Minister, with the concurrence of the Minister for Finance, directs.

(1B) Immediately after every audit under this section of its accounts, the Authority shall send to the Minister—

(*a*) a copy of the income and expenditure account and balance sheet as certified by the Comptroller and Auditor General,

(*b*) a copy of the Comptroller and Auditor General's report, and

(*c*) copies of such of the accounts submitted for audit as the Minister may appoint as accounts of which copies are to be furnished to him.”

##### 7 Minor amendment and repeals.

**7.**—(1) The number of the subsection inserted by paragraph (*d*) of section 34 of the Principal Act in section 5 of the Act of 1926 is hereby changed from “(1A)” to “(1B)”.

(2) Paragraphs (*h*) and (*k*) of subsection (2) of section 16 and subsections (2), (3) and (4) of section 25 of the Principal Act are hereby repealed.

##### 8 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**8.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Broadcasting Authority (Amendment) Act, 1966.

(2) The Broadcasting Authority Acts, 1960 and 1964, and this Act shall be construed together as one Act and may be cited together as the Broadcasting Authority Acts, 1960 to 1966.
