---
title: "National Gallery of Ireland Act , 1928"
identifier: "IE-1928-act-20"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1928-07-30"
last_updated: "1928-07-30"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1928/act/20"
title_ga: "Acht Ghailerí Náisiúnta na hÉireann, 1928"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1928/20"
---
# National Gallery of Ireland Act , 1928

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the National Gallery” means the National Gallery of Ireland and the expression “the Governors and Guardians” means the Governors and Guardians of the National Gallery of Ireland.

##### 2 Exhibitions of pictures from the National Gallery.

**2.**—(1) The Governors and Guardians at their discretion may, for the purpose of promoting the study of art, hold at such places in Saorstát Eireann as they think fit public exhibitions of pictures selected by them from the pictures in the National Gallery belonging to them and for the purpose of any such exhibition may transport to and from the building in which such exhibition is held the pictures so selected and may retain such pictures in such building during and for a reasonable time before and after such exhibition.

(2) Whenever the Governors and Guardians hold an exhibition of pictures under this section, they shall take all such steps (including insurance) as they shall consider to be reasonably necessary or proper for ensuring the safety and preservation of such pictures while out of the National Gallery.

##### 3 Loans in Saorstát Eireann of pictures from the National Gallery.

**3.**—Where a public exhibition of pictures or works of art is intended to be held in Saorstát Eireann under the management and control of a public or local authority or of the governing body of a university, college, or other educational institution or of an institution or association founded and maintained for the promotion of art, science, or literature, the Governors and Guardians may at their discretion lend to such authority, body, institution, or association for inclusion in such exhibition such and so many of the pictures belonging to them in the National Gallery as they think fit so to lend.

##### 4 Loans abroad of pictures from the National Gallery.

**4.**—(1) Where a public exhibition of pictures or works of art is intended to be held outside Saorstát Eireann under the management and control of the Government of the country in which such exhibition is held or of a public or local authority in such country or of the governing body of a university, college, or other educational institution in such country or of an institution or association founded and maintained for the promotion of art, science, or literature in such country, the Governors and Guardians may at their discretion lend to such Government, authority, body, institution or association for inclusion in such exhibition such and so many of the pictures belonging to them in the National Gallery as they think fit so to lend.

(2) The Governors and Guardians shall not lend under this section any pictures for inclusion in an exhibition unless they are satisfied that under the law of the country in which such exhibition is held loans of pictures selected from the national or other public collections of pictures in such country may be made to the Government of and public authorities and institutions in Saorstát Eireann.

##### 5 Byelaws.

**5.**—(1) The Governors and Guardians may make bye-laws in relation to the holding of public exhibitions of pictures by them under this Act and in particular may by such bye-laws make such provision as they think proper for the safety, preservation, and insurance of the pictures included in any such exhibition while out of the National Gallery and for the management and conduct of such exhibitions and in relation to the admission of the public thereto.

(2) The Governors and Guardians may also make bye-laws in relation to the lending of pictures by them under this Act and in particular may by such bye-laws prescribe such conditions as they shall think proper in relation to the transport, insurance, care, and custody of pictures so lent and generally for the safety and preservation of such pictures while out of the National Gallery.

##### 6 Short title, construction and citation.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the National Gallery of Ireland Act, 1928.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the National Gallery of Ireland Acts, 1854 to 1865, and those Acts and this Act may be cited together as the National Gallery of Ireland Acts, 1854 to 1928.
