---
title: "Export Promotion (Amendment) Act , 1969"
identifier: "IE-1969-act-4"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1969-03-26"
last_updated: "1969-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1969/act/4"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Onnmhairiú a Spreagadh (Leasú), 1969"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1969/4"
---
# Export Promotion (Amendment) Act , 1969

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Board” means Córas Tráchtála;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Industry and Commerce.

##### 2 Increase of non-repayable grants to Board.

**2.**—The aggregate amount of the sums which the Minister, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, may pay to the Board for the purpose of enabling it to exercise or perform its functions (excluding any sum paid to it under section 4 of the Export Promotion (Amendment) Act, 1963) shall not exceed nine million pounds and, accordingly, section 16 (1) of the Export Promotion Act, 1959, shall be construed as if that sum were substituted for the sum mentioned therein.

##### 3 Assistance by Board of certain design and planning services.

**3.**—(1) (*a*) The Board may assist architects practising in the State, and engineers so practising, in relation to the rendering of services to which this subsection applies.

(*b*) This subsection applies to design and planning services, the work on the rendering of which is carried out in the State in connection with engineering or constructional works executed outside the State.

(2) The Board shall have all such powers as are necessary for the purposes of subsection (1) of this section.

##### 4 Short title and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Export Promotion (Amendment) Act, 1969.

(2) The Export Promotion Acts, 1959 to 1967, and this Act may be cited together as the Export Promotion Acts, 1959 to 1969.
