---
title: "Carriage by Sea (Heavy Articles) Act , 1934"
identifier: "IE-1934-act-45"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1934-12-21"
last_updated: "1934-12-21"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1934/act/45"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Iompar de Mhuir (Earraí Troma), 1934"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1934/45"
---
# Carriage by Sea (Heavy Articles) Act , 1934

##### 1 Prohibition of loading, etc., certain heavy articles.

**1.**—(1) It shall not be lawful to load or attempt to load into any ship, barge, or other vessel for transport by sea or inland waterway from a port or other place in Saorstát Eireann (whether to a port or other place in, or to a port or other place outside, Saorstát Eireann) any package or object the gross weight of which equals or exceeds one thousand kilogrammes, unless the true gross weight of such package or object is plainly and durably marked on the outside of such package or object when such package or object is so loaded into such ship, barge, or other vessel.

(2) It shall not be lawful to export or attempt to export from Saorstát Eireann across a land frontier, for transport (commencing outside Saorstát Eireann) by sea or inland waterway, any package or object the gross weight of which equals or exceeds one thousand kilogrammes, unless the true gross weight of such package or object is plainly and durably marked on the outside of such package or object when such package or object is so exported.

(3) Where by reason of the size, nature, or shape of the package or object or for any other cause it is not reasonably practicable to ascertain the exact gross weight of a package or object required by this section to be marked with the true gross weight thereof, it shall be a sufficient compliance with this section to mark on such package or object in accordance with this section the approximate gross weight thereof ascertained or estimated with as close an approach to accuracy as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

(4) Whenever a package or object is loaded or attempted to be loaded into a ship, barge, or other vessel or is exported or attempted to be exported in contravention of this section, the person who by himself, his servant, or agent consigns in Saorstát Eireann such package or object for transport in such vessel or for such export shall be guilty of an offence under this section and shall be liable on summary conviction thereof to a fine not exceeding ten pounds.

(5) Every offence under this section may be prosecuted by or at the suit of the Minister for Industry and Commerce as prosecutor.

(6) In this section the word “consign” includes making with a carrier a contract for the transport of goods.

##### 2 Short title.

**2.**—This Act may be cited as the Carriage by Sea (Heavy Articles) Act, 1934.
