---
title: "Liability for Defective Products Act , 1991"
identifier: "IE-1991-act-28"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1991-12-04"
last_updated: "2019-05-28"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1991/act/28"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Dhliteanas i leith Táirgí Fabhtacha, 1991"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1991/28"
related_docs: "memo"
---
##### 1. **Interpretation.**

1.—(1)In this Act, except where the context otherwise requires—

F1[“the Council Directive”means Council Directive No. 85/374/EEC of 25 July 1985^(1)(as amended by Directive No. 1999/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 May 1999^(2)) the texts of which in the English language are set out for convenience of reference in the Schedule to this Act;]

“damage” means—

(a)death or personal injury, or

(b)loss of, damage to, or destruction of, any item of property other than the defective product itself:

Provided that the item of property—

(i)is of a type ordinarily intended for private use or consumption, and

(ii)was used by the injured person mainly for his own private use or consumption;

“initial processing” means, in relation to primary agricultural products, any processing of an industrial nature of those products which could cause a defect therein;

“injured person” means a person who has suffered damage caused wholly or partly by a defect in a product or, if he has died, his personal representative (within the meaning of section 3 of the Succession Act, 1965) or dependants (within the meaning of section 47 (1) of the Civil Liability Act, 1961);

“Member State” means a Member State of the European Communities;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Industry and Commerce;

“personal injury” includes any disease and any impairment of a person's physical or mental condition;

“primary agricultural products” means the products of the soil, of stock-farming and of fisheries and game, excluding such products and game which have undergone initial processing;

“producer” shall be construed in accordance with *section 2* of this Act;

F1[“product”means all movables, including primary agricultural products which have not undergone initial processing, and includes—

(*a*) movables even though incorporated into another product or into an immovable, whether by virtue of being a component part or raw material or otherwise, and

(*b*) electricity where damage is caused as a result of a failure in the process of generation of electricty,]

(2)A word or expression that is used in this Act and is also used in the Council Directive has, unless the contrary intention appears, the meaning in this Act that it has in the Council Directive.

(3)In construing a provision of this Act, a court shall give it a construction that will give effect to the Council Directive, and for this purpose a court shall have regard to the provisions of the Council Directive, including its preamble.

(4)In this Act a reference to any other enactment shall be construed as a reference to that enactment as amended by or under any other enactment, including this Act.

##### 2. **Liability for damage caused by defective products.**

2.—(1)The producer shall be liable in damages in tort for damage caused wholly or partly by a defect in his product.

(2)In this Act, “producer” means—

(a)the manufacturer or producer of a finished product, or

(b)the manufacturer or producer of any raw material or the manufacturer or producer of a component part of a product, or

(c)in the case of the products of the soil, of stock-farming and of fisheries and game, which have undergone initial processing, the person who carried out such processing, or

(d)any person who, by putting his name, trade mark or other distinguishing feature on the product or using his name or any such mark or feature in relation to the product, has held himself out to be the producer of the product, or

(e)any person who has imported the product into a Member State from a place outside the European Communities inorder, in the course of any business of his, to supply it to another, or

(f)any person who is liable as producer of the product pursuant to *subsection (3)* of this section.

(3)Without prejudice to *subsection (1)* of this section, where damage is caused wholly or partly by a defect in a product, any person who supplied the product (whether to the person who suffered the damage, to the producer of any product in which the product is comprised or to any other person) shall, where the producer of the product cannot by taking reasonable steps be identified, be liable, as the producer, for the damage if—

(a)the injured person requests the supplier to identify any person (whether still in existence or not) to whom *paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d)* or *(e)* of *subsection (2)* of this section applies in relation to the product,

(b)that request is made within a reasonable time after the damage occurs and at a time when it is not reasonably practicable for the injured person to identify all those persons, and

(c)the supplier fails, within a reasonable time after receiving the request, either to comply with the request or to identify the person who supplied the product to him.

##### 3. **Limitation of damages.**

3.—(1)Where, but for this section, damages not exceeding £350 in respect of loss of or damage to, or destruction of, any item of property other than the defective product itself would fall to be awarded by virtue of this Act, no damages shall be awarded, and where, but for this section, damages exceeding that amount would fall to be awarded, only that excess shall be awarded.

(2)The Minister may by order vary with effect from a date specified in the order, being a date subsequent to the making of the order, the amount specified in *subsection (1)* of this section but such variation shall not apply to proceedings pending in any court at that date.

(3)The Minister may by order amend or revoke an order made under this section.

##### 4. **Proof of damage and defect.**

4.—The onus shall be on the injured person concerned to prove the damage, the defect and the causal relationship between the defect and damage.

##### 5. **Defective product.**

5.—(1)For the purposes of this Act a product is defective if it fails to provide the safety which a person is entitled to expect, taking all circumstances into account, including—

(a)the presentation of the product,

(b)the use to which it could reasonably be expected that the product would be put, and

(c)the time when the product was put into circulation.

(2)A product shall not be considered defective for the sole reason that a better product is subsequently put into circulation.

##### 6. **Defences.**

6.—A producer shall not be liable under this Act if he proves—

(a)that he did not put the product into circulation, or

(b)that, having regard to the circumstances, it is probable that the defect which caused the damage did not exist at the time when the product was put into circulation by him or that that defect came into being afterwards, or

(c)that the product was neither manufactured by him for sale or any form of distribution for an economic purpose nor manufactured or distributed by him in the course of his business, or

(d)that the defect concerned is due to compliance by the product with any requirement imposed by or under any enactment or any requirement of the law of the European Communities, or

(e)that the state of scientific and technical knowledge at the time when he put the product into circulation was not such as to enable the existence of the defect to be discovered, or

(f)in the case of the manufacturer of a component or the producer of a raw material, that the defect is attributable entirely to the design of the product in which the component has been fitted or the raw material has been incorporated or to the instructions given by the manufacturer of the product.

##### 7. **Limitation of actions.**

7.—(1)An action for the recovery of damages under this Act shall not be brought after the expiration of three years from the date on which the cause of action accrued or the date (if later) on which the plaintiff became aware, or should reasonably have become aware, of the damage, the defect and the identity of the producer.

(2)(a)A right of action under this Act shall be extinguished upon the expiration of the period of ten years from the date on which the producer put into circulation the actual product which caused the damage unless the injured person has in the meantime instituted proceedings against the producer.

(b)*Paragraph (a)* of this subsection shall have effect whether or not the right of action accrued or time began to run during the period referred to in *subsection (1)* of this section.

(3)Sections 9 and 48 (6) of the Civil Liability Act, 1961, shall not apply to an action for the recovery of damages under this Act.

(4)The Statutes of Limitation, 1957 and 1991, shall apply to an action under this Act subject to the provisions of this section.

(5)For the purposes of *subsection (4)*—

(a)*subsection (1)* of this section shall be deemed to be a provision of the Statute of Limitations (Amendment) Act, 1991, of the kind referred to in section 2 (1) of that Act,

(b)“injury” where it occurs in that Act except in section 2 (1) *(b)* thereof includes damage to property, and “person injured” and, “injured” shall be construed accordingly, and

(c)the reference in *subsection (1)* of this section to the date when the plaintiff became aware, or should reasonably have become aware, of the damage, the defect and the identity of the producer shall be construed in accordancewith section 2 of that Act, but nothing in this paragraph shall prejudice the application of *section 1 (3)* of this Act.

##### 8. **Joint and several liability.**

8.—Where two or more persons are liable by virtue of this Act for the same damage, they shall be liable jointly and severally as concurrent wrongdoers within the meaning of Part III of the Civil Liability Act, 1961.

##### 9. **Reduction of liability.**

9.—(1)Without prejudice to Part III of the Civil Liability Act, 1961 concerning the right of contribution, the liability of the producer shall not be reduced when damage is caused both by a defect in a product and by the act or omission of a third party.

(2)Where any damage is caused partly by a defect in a product and partly by the fault of the injured person or of any person for whom the injured person is responsible, the provisions of the Civil Liability Act, 1961, concerning contributory negligence, shall have effect as if the defect were due to the fault of every person liable by virtue of this Act for the damage caused by the defect.

##### 10. **Prohibition on exclusion from liability.**

10.—The liability of a producer arising by virtue of this Act to an injured person shall not be limited or excluded by any term of contract, by any notice or by any other provision.

##### 11. **Other rights of action not precluded.**

11.—This Act shall not affect any rights which an injured person may have under any enactment or under any rule of law.

##### 12. **Application of Courts Act, 1988.**

12.—Section 1 of the Courts Act, 1988, shall apply to an action in the High Court claiming damages under this Act or a question of fact or an issue arising in such an action as if such damages were mentioned in subsection (1) (*a*) of that section.

##### 13. **Application of this Act.**

13.—This Act shall not apply to any product put into circulation within the territory of any Member State before the commencement of this Act.

##### 14. **Short title and commencement.**

14.—(1)This Act may be cited as the Liability for Defective Products Act, 1991.

(2)This Act shall come into operation on such day as the Minister may appoint by order.

