---
title: "Central Fund Act , 1945"
identifier: "IE-1945-act-9"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1945-03-26"
last_updated: "1945-03-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1945/act/9"
title_ga: "An tAcht Priomh-Chiste, 1945"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1945/9"
---
# Central Fund Act , 1945

##### 1 Issue of £14 10s. 5d. out of the Central Fund for the service of the year ended 31st March, 1943.

**1.**—The Minister for Finance may issue out of the Central Fund and apply towards making good the supply granted for the service of the year ended on the thirty-first day of March one thousand nine hundred and Forty-three the sum of Fourteen Pounds Ten Shillings and Fivepence.

##### 2 Issue of £1,142,245 out of the Central Fund for the service of the year ending 31st March, 1945.

**2.**—The Minister for Finance may issue out of the Central Fund and apply towards making good the supply granted for the service of the year ending on the thirty-first day of March one thousand nine hundred and forty-five the sum of One Million One Hundred and Forty-two Thousand Two Hundred and Forty-five Pounds.

##### 3 Issue of £16,196,000 out of the Central Fund for the service of the year ending 31st March, 1946.

**3.**—The Minister for Finance may issue out of the Central Fund and apply towards making good the supply granted for the service of the year ending on the thirty-first day of March one thousand nine hundred and forty-six the sum of Sixteen Million One Hundred and Ninety-six Thousand Pounds.

##### 4 Power of Minister for Finance to borrow up to £17,338,259 10s. 5d.

**4.**—(1) The Minister for Finance may borrow from any person and the Bank of Ireland may advance to the Minister for Finance any sum or sums not exceeding in the whole Seventeen Million Three Hundred and Thirty-eight Thousand Two Hundred and Fifty-nine Pounds Ten Shillings and Fivepence and for the purpose of such borrowing the Minister for Finance may create and issue any securities bearing such rate of interest and subject to such conditions as to repayment, redemption or otherwise as he thinks fit.

(2) The principal and interest of any securities issued under this Act and the expenses incurred in connection with the issue of such securities shall be charged on the Central Fund or the growing produce thereof.

(3) Any money raised by securities issued under this Act shall be placed to the credit of the account of the Exchequer and shall form part of the Central Fund and be available in any manner in which such Fund is available.

##### 5 Short title.

**5.**—This Act may be cited as the Central Fund Act, 1945.
