---
title: "Tourist Traffic Act , 1975"
identifier: "IE-1975-act-26"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1975-12-03"
last_updated: "1975-12-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1975/act/26"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Thrácht Cuartaíochta, 1975"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1975/26"
---
# Tourist Traffic Act , 1975

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Board” means Bord Fáilte Éireann;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Transport and Power.

##### 2 Non-repayable grants to Board for tourism development.

**2.**—(1) The Minister, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, may from time to time, pay to the Board, out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas, such sums, not exceeding in the aggregate £4,750,000, as the Board may require for the purpose of the giving of grants for development works, being works which—

(*a*) are capital in nature,

(*b*) in the opinion of the Board will develop tourism, and

(*c*) are not works for the development of holiday accommodation.

(2) Any sums paid to the Board under this section shall not be used by the Board for any purpose other than that specified in subsection (1).

(3) Sums paid under this section to the Board shall not be repayable.

(4) Sums payable under this section to the Board are in addition to sums payable to the Board under either section 2 of the Tourist Traffic Act, 1959, or section 2 of the Tourist Traffic Act, 1961.

##### 3 Increase of certain non-repayable grants to Board.

**3.**—The aggregate amount of the sums that the Minister may pay to the Board for the purpose of the giving of grants by the Board for the development of holiday accommodation shall not exceed £16,000,000 and, accordingly, section 2 (1) (*b*) of the Tourist Traffic Act, 1959, shall be construed as if that sum were substituted for the sum of £13,000,000 mentioned therein and inserted by section 1 of the Tourist Traffic Act, 1972.

##### 4 Chief officer's remuneration etc.

**4.**—There shall be paid by the Board to its chief officer (whether that officer is described as the Director General or otherwise) such remuneration and allowances as the Board, with the approval of the Minister given with the consent of the Minister for the Public Service, shall determine.

##### 5 Amendment of section 11 of Tourist Traffic Act, 1939.

**5.**—Section 11 of the Tourist Traffic Act, 1939, is hereby amended by the insertion after “servants” of “, other than its chief officer,” in subsection (2).

##### 6 Short title and collective citation.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Tourist Traffic Act, 1975.

(2) The Tourist Traffic Acts, 1939 to 1972, and this Act may be cited together as the Tourist Traffic Acts, 1939 to 1975.
