---
title: "Export Promotion (Amendment) Act , 1967"
identifier: "IE-1967-act-1"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1967-02-07"
last_updated: "1967-02-07"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1967/act/1"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Onnmhairiú a Spreagadh (Leasú), 1967"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1967/1"
---
# Export Promotion (Amendment) Act , 1967

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

“the Act of 1959” means the Export Promotion Act, 1959;

“the Board” means Córas Tráchtála established by the Act of 1959;

“the Minister” means the Minister for Industry and Commerce.

##### 2 Increase of non-repayable grants to Board.

**2.**—The aggregate amount of the sums that the Minister, with the consent of the Minister for Finance, may pay to the Board for the purpose of enabling it to exercise or perform its functions (excluding any sum paid to it under section 4 of the Export Promotion (Amendment) Act, 1963) shall not exceed four million, five hundred thousand pounds and, accordingly, section 16 (1) of the Act of 1959 shall be construed as if that sum were substituted for the sum mentioned therein.

##### 3 Borrowing by Board.

**3.**—The Board may, with the consent of the Minister given with the concurrence of the Minister for Finance, borrow such sums as it may from time to time require for the purposes of its capital expenditure.

##### 4 Alteration and reconstruction by Board of premises for purpose of disposal of premises.

**4.**—(1) The Board may, for the purpose of facilitating the disposal by it of any estate or interest in premises or portion of premises held by the Board, alter, adapt or reconstruct the premises or portion.

(2) The Board shall have all such powers as are necessary for the purposes of subsection (1) of this section.

##### 5 Promotion and assistance of industrial design by Board.

**5.**—(1) The Board may—

(*a*) promote, assist and develop Irish industrial design and the improvement of the standard thereof,

(*b*) advise the Minister on matters affecting or in any way connected with the promotion, assistance or development of Irish industrial design or the improvement of the standard thereof.

(2) The Board shall have all such powers as are necessary for the purposes of subsection (1) of this section.

##### 6 Short title and collective citation.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Export Promotion (Amendment) Act, 1967.

(2) The Export Promotion Acts, 1959 to 1963, and this Act may be cited together as the Export Promotion Acts, 1959 to 1967.
