---
title: "Civil Service Regulation (Amendment) Act , 1958"
identifier: "IE-1958-act-34"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1958-12-23"
last_updated: "1958-12-23"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1958/act/34"
title_ga: "Acht Rialaithe na Státseirbhíse (Leasú), 1958"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1958/34"
---
# Civil Service Regulation (Amendment) Act , 1958

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act, “the Regulation Act” means the Civil Service Regulation Act, 1956.

(2) This Act shall be construed as one with the Regulation Act.

##### 2 Tenure of office of persons appointed to excluded positions.

**2.**—(1) In this section—

“the Commissioners Act” means the Civil Service Commissioners Act, 1956 ;

“excluded position” has the same meaning as in the Commissioners Act.

(2) Where a person is appointed to a position which is for the time being an excluded position and the order, made under section 5 of the Commissioners Act, declaring that position to be an excluded position, ceases to be in force, then, unless his services are sooner terminated under section 6 of the Regulation Act, he shall cease to hold that position on the date on which the order ceases to be in force.

##### 3 Amendment of section 7 of the Regulation Act.

**3.**—In section 7 of the Regulation Act, all words commencing with the words “Where the appropriate authority” and ending with the words “attaching to his probationary positionM” shall be deleted, and there shall be substituted therefor the following words, “Where, in respect of a civil servant who has been appointed to an established position (in this section referred to as his probationary position) and who under his conditions of service is serving in a probationary capacity, the appropriate authority is, at any time during the civil servant's probationary period or such (if any) extension thereof as the appropriate authority may from time to time fix, satisfied that he has failed to fulfil the conditions of probation attaching to his probationary position”.

##### 4 Repeal and re-enactment with modification of section 20 (1) of the Regulation Act.

**4.**—Subsection (1) of section 20 of the Regulation Act is hereby repealed and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that the Regulation Act shall cease to apply to members of the staff of the Houses of the Oireachtas on whichever of the following dates is the earlier—

(*a*) the date on which a future Act making provision in relation to the regulation, control and management of the members of the staff of the Houses of the Oireachtas comes into operation,

(*b*) the 17th day of February, 1960.

##### 5 Short title and collective citation.

**5.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Civil Service Regulation (Amendment) Act, 1958.

(2) The Regulation Act and this Act may be cited together as the Civil Service Regulation Acts, 1956 and 1958.
