---
title: "Imposition of Duties (Confirmation of Orders)(No. 2) Act , 1937"
identifier: "IE-1937-act-31"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1937-11-19"
last_updated: "1937-11-19"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1937/act/31"
title_ga: "An tAcht chun Diúitéthe do Ghearradh (Orduithe do Dhaingniú)(Uimh. 2), 1937"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1937/31"
---
# Imposition of Duties (Confirmation of Orders)(No. 2) Act , 1937

##### 1 Confirmation of Orders.

**1.**—(1) The several Orders mentioned in the third column of the Schedule to this Act, and made by the Executive Council under the Emergency Imposition of Duties Act, 1932 (No. 16 of 1932), are hereby confirmed.

(2) The particulars stated in the second and fourth columns, respectively, of the Schedule to this Act in relation to the Orders mentioned in the third column of the said Schedule are inserted in the said Schedule solely to facilitate reference to and identification of the said Orders, and, accordingly, nothing contained in the said second column or the said fourth column shall affect the construction or limit or control the operation of this section and the third column of the said Schedule.

##### 2 Short title.

**2.**—This Act may be cited as the Imposition of Duties (Confirmation of Orders) (No. 2) Act, 1937.

## SCHEDULE. Ref. No. Number and Year in the Statutory Rules and Orders Short Title General Subject-Matter 1 No. 69 of 1937. Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 124) Order, 1937. Revocation of duty on certain cordage: amendment of duty on racquets. 2 No. 132 of 1937. Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 125) Order, 1937. Variation of duty on certain yarns and rovings. 3 No. 140 of 1937. Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 126) Order, 1937. Imposition of duty on pigs. 4 No. 194 of 1937. Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 127) Order, 1937. Imposition of duty on laminated glass. 5 No. 218 of 1937. Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 128) Order, 1937. Imposition of duty on certain dolls. 6 No. 219 of 1937. Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 129) Order, 1937. Imposition of duty on certain tiles. 7 No. 243 of 1937. Emergency Imposition of Duties (No. 130) Order, 1937. Imposition of duty on certain articles made of leather or skin.
