---
title: "Army Pensions Act , 1971"
identifier: "IE-1971-act-26"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1971-09-01"
last_updated: "1971-09-01"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1971/act/26"
title_ga: "An tAcht Arm-Phinsean, 1971"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1971/26"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Army Pensions Act , 1971

##### 1 Allowances to widows of military service pensioners.

**1.**—(1) The Minister may grant to the widow (provided she has not remarried) of a person who was granted a pension under the Military Service Pensions Act, 1924, or the Military Service Pensions Act, 1934, or a service pension under the Connaught Rangers (Pensions) Act, 1936, an allowance of—

(*a*) £52-20 per annum, or

(*b*) one half of the annual rate of pension payable under any of the said Acts to her husband on the 1st day of October, 1971, or which would be payable to him if he were alive on that date,

whichever is the greater.

(2) Every allowance granted to a widow under this section shall be payable from—

(*a*) the 1st day of October, 1971, or

(*b*) the day following the date of death of her husband,

whichever is the later.

(3) If a widow to whom an allowance is granted under this section remarries, the allowance shall be terminated from the date of her remarriage.

(4) Every application for an allowance under this section shall be in such form and contain such particulars as the Minister may require.

##### 2 Application of certain enactments to an allowance under this Act.

**2.**—Sections 9 to 12 and section 14 of the Army Pensions Act, 1923, and subsections (1), (2) and (5) of section 2 and section 13 of the Army Pensions Act, 1949, shall apply, in relation to an allowance granted under this Act, as if that allowance were an allowance mentioned in any of the said sections.

##### 3 Non-application of certain enactments to an allowance under this Act.

**3.**—Section 8 (1) of the Army Pensions Act, 1953, and Articles 22 (1) (*b*) and 23 (1) (*a*) of the Defence Forces (Pensions) Scheme, 1937, (S.R. & O., No. 249 of 1937), shall not apply to an allowance granted under this Act.

##### 4 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Army Pensions Act, 1971.

(2) The Army Pensions Acts, 1923 to 1968, and this Act shall be construed together as one Act and may be cited together as the Army Pensions Acts, 1923 to 1971.
