---
title: "Ennis Urban District Council (Dissolution) Act , 1929"
identifier: "IE-1929-act-6"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1929-04-26"
last_updated: "1929-04-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1929/act/6"
title_ga: "Acht Comhairle Bhailecheanntar na hInse (Scur), 1929"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1929/6"
---
# Ennis Urban District Council (Dissolution) Act , 1929

##### 1 Definition.

**1.**—In this Act the expression “the Minister” means the Minister for Local Government and Public Health.

##### 2 Continuance of dissolution of Ennis Urban District Council.

**2.**—(1) Notwithstanding—

(*a*) that more than three years have elapsed since the dissolution of the Ennis Urban District Council by the Ennis Urban District Council (Dissolution) Order, 1926, made by the Minister on the 14th day of April, 1926, under section 72 of the Local Government Act, 1925 (No. 5 of 1925), and

(*b*) that under an Order duly made by the Minister on the 16th day of March, 1929, under sub-section (5) of the said section 72 of the said Act, a new election of members of the Ennis Urban District Council was duly held, and

(*c*) that at such new election no persons were nominated or elected to be members of the said Council,

the Ennis Urban District Council shall be deemed to have continued and shall continue to be dissolved under and by virtue of the said Ennis Urban District Council (Dissolution) Order, 1926, and that Order shall be deemed to have continued and shall continue to be in force as from the completion (if any) of the said new election or the expiration of three years from the dissolution of the said Council under the said Order, whichever first happened, until the completion of a new election of members of the said Council held under this Act or the expiration of three years from the passing of this Act, whichever shall first happen.

(2) So long as the Ennis Urban District Council (Dissolution) Order, 1926, continues in force by virtue of this Act, sub-sections (2), (3), (4), and (6) of section 72 of the Local Government Act, 1925, shall apply in respect of the said Order as fully as they would apply if the said Order were in force by virtue of the said section 72 alone.

(3) Not later than three years after the passing of this Act, the Minister shall by order cause a new election of members of the Ennis Urban District Council to be held, and upon the completion of such new election all the property, powers, and duties of the Ennis Urban District Council shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the Ennis Urban District Council (Dissolution) Order, 1926, vest in the Council elected at such new election.

##### 3 Short title.

**3.**—This Act may be cited as the Ennis Urban District Council (Dissolution) Act, 1929.
