---
title: "Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions)(Amendment) Act , 1936"
identifier: "IE-1936-act-13"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1936-04-03"
last_updated: "1936-04-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1936/act/13"
title_ga: "Acht na dTithe (Forálacha Airgid agus Forálacha Ilghnéitheacha)(Leasú), 1936"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1936/13"
---
# Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions)(Amendment) Act , 1936

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.**—In this Act—

the expression “the Principal Act” means the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1932 (No. 19 of 1932);

the expression “the Minister” and the word “person” have the same meanings as they respectively have in Part II of the Principal Act.

##### 2 Amendment of exemption from rates.

**2.**—Sub-section (2) of section 10 of the Principal Act is hereby repealed as on and from the 1st day of March, 1936, and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted, as on and from that day, that where a grant is made under paragraph (*h*) of sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Principal Act in respect of the reconstruction of a house, the valuation of the hereditament or tenement consisting of or including such house shall not, on any valuation or revision of the valuation thereof coming into force within seven years after the completion of such reconstruction, be increased on account of any increase in the value of such hereditament or tenement arising from such reconstruction.

##### 3 Increase of limit of grants under the Principal Act.

**3.**—Section 3 of the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment) Act, 1934 (No. 30 of 1934), is hereby repealed, and in lieu thereof it is hereby enacted that the aggregate amount of the grants to be made by the Minister under section 5 of the Principal Act as amended by the said Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment) Act, 1934, shall not exceed the sum of two million, one hundred thousand pounds.

##### 4 Short title and citation.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment) Act, 1936.

(2) The Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) Acts, 1932 and 1934, and this Act may be cited together as the Housing (Financial and Miscellaneous Provisions) Acts, 1932 to 1936.
