---
title: "Housing (Gaeltacht)(Amendment) Act , 1953"
identifier: "IE-1953-act-6"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1953-03-18"
last_updated: "1953-03-18"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1953/act/6"
title_ga: "Acht na dTithe (Gaeltacht)(Leasú), 1953"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1953/6"
---
# Housing (Gaeltacht)(Amendment) Act , 1953

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act—

“the Act of 1929” means the Housing (Gaeltacht) Act, 1929 (No. 41 of 1929);

“the Act of 1949” means the Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1949 (No. 4 of 1949).

(2) The Housing (Gaeltacht) Acts, 1929 to 1949, and this Act shall be construed as one.

##### 2 Amendment of section 7 of Act of 1929.

**2.**—Section 7 of the Act of 1929 (which specifies restrictions on the making of grants) is hereby amended by—

(*a*) the deletion of “or has at any time within seven years before the passing of this Act been” and “or any British statute” in subsection (1), and

(*b*) the insertion after subsection (1) of the following subsection:

“(1A) No improving grant shall be made under this Act in respect of a dwelling-house during the period of seven years following the making of a building grant or an improving grant in respect of the same dwelling-house.”

##### 3 Sanitation grants and special extension grants.

**3.**—(1) Section 3 of the Act of 1929 (which specifies the grants in relation to dwelling-houses) is hereby amended by the addition thereto of the following subsections:

“(3) Where the Minister is satisfied that the condition of a dwelling-house in the Gaeltacht is such as justifies the provision and installation therein of a private water supply and sewerage facilities, the Minister may, subject to the provisions of this Act and the regulations made by the Minister thereunder, make to the occupier of such dwelling-house a grant (in this Act referred to as a sanitation grant) not exceeding fifty pounds towards such provision and installation.

(4) Where—

(*a*) the Minister is satisfied that the provision of an extension, for the accommodation of visitors, to a dwelling-house in the Gaeltacht is desirable, and

(*b*) a water supply and sewerage facilities which the Minister considers adequate are already installed or are being installed in such dwelling-house,

the Minister may, subject to the provisions of this Act and the regulations made thereunder, make to the occupier of such dwelling-house a grant (in this Act referred to as a special extension grant) not exceeding eighty pounds towards the provision of such extension.”

(2) Section 8 of the Act of 1929 (which relates to loans in amplification of grants) is hereby amended by the insertion in subsection (1) of “(not being a sanitation grant)” after “grant under this Act.”

(3) Section 16 of the Act of 1929 (which relates to regulations) is hereby amended by the insertion in paragraph (*b*) of subsection (1) of “sanitation grants, special extension grants” after “improving grants”.

(4) A grant may be made under subsection (3) (inserted by subsection (1) of this section) of section 3 of the Act of 1929 towards a provision and installation which commenced before the passing of this Act provided that it commenced on or after the 29th day of April, 1952.

(5) A grant made under subsection (3) (inserted by subsection (1) of this section) of section 3 of the Act of 1929 shall be a relevant grant within the meaning and for the purposes of the Housing (Amendment) Act, 1952 (No. 16 of 1952), and for the purposes of this subsection, where payment of the first instalment of a grant has been made, the grant shall be deemed to have been made on the date of that payment.

##### 4 Repeal of section 2 of Act of 1949.

**4.**—Section 2 of the Act of 1949 (which specifies the limit on the aggregate amount of grants and loans) is hereby repealed.

##### 5 Amendment of section 3 (1) of Act of 1949.

**5.**—Subsection (1) of section 3 of the Act of 1949 (which relates to the limitations on the amounts of building and improving grants) is hereby amended—

(I) by the insertion of “(not being a sanitation grant or special extension grant)” after “individual grant”, and

(II) by the substitution for paragraph (*b*) of the following paragraphs:

“(*b*) in the case of an improving grant not governed by paragraph (c) of this subsection—eighty pounds,

(*c*) in the case of an improving grant the whole of which is paid on or after the 29th day of April, 1952 (not being a grant which is sanctioned and notified to the applicant before that day and is in respect of an improvement or extension begun before that day)—

(i) as respects a dwelling-house containing, on completion of the improvement or extension, three rooms—eighty pounds,

(ii) as respects a dwelling-house containing, on completion of the improvement or extension, four rooms—one hundred pounds, and

(iii) as respects a dwelling-house containing, on completion of the improvement or extension, five or more rooms, one hundred and twenty pounds.”

##### 6 Short title and collective citation.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Housing (Gaeltacht) (Amendment) Act, 1953.

(2) The Housing (Gaeltacht) Acts, 1929 to 1949, and this Act may be cited together as the Housing (Gaeltacht) Acts, 1929 to 1953.
