---
title: "Social Welfare (Amendment) Act  1984"
identifier: "IE-1984-act-27"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1984-12-26"
last_updated: "1984-12-26"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1984/act/27"
title_ga: "An tAcht Leasa Shóisialaigh (Leasú), 1984"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1984/27"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Social Welfare (Amendment) Act  1984

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Social Welfare (Consolidation) Act, 1981.

##### 2 Disqualification Part II, Chapter 4.

**2.**—Section 35 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion after subsection (2) of the following subsection:

“(2A) A person shall be disqualified for receiving unemployment benefit during any week in which he is employed under a scheme administered by the Department of Labour and known as the Social Employment Scheme.”.

##### 3 Insurable (occupational injuries) employment.

**3.**—Section 38 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion after subsection (11):

“(12) A person employed under a scheme administered by the Department of Labour and known as the Social Employment Scheme shall be deemed, for the purposes of this Part, to be in insurable (occupational injuries) employment.”.

##### 4 Disqualification Part III, Chapter 2.

**4.**—Section 142 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion in subsection (1) after paragraph *(d)* of the following paragraph:

“or

(*e*) while he is employed during any week under a scheme administered by the Department of Labour and known as the Social Employment Scheme.”.

##### 5 Intermittent unemployment.

**5.**—Section 233 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution for the definition of “intermittent unemployment” of the following definition:

“‘intermittent unemployment’ means unemployment and consequent loss of wages due to stoppage of work in an insurable employment which—

(*a*) is unavoidable owing to inclement weather, and

(*b*) occurs on or before the 6th day of January, 1985,

and the expression ‘intermittently unemployed’ shall be construed accordingly;”.

##### 6 Liability for contributions.

**6.**—Section 241 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion after subsection (4) of the following subsection:

“(5) No weekly contribution shall be payable pursuant to subsection (3) in respect of any calendar week which commences on or after the 7th day of January, 1985.”.

##### 7 Repayment by Minister of benefit paid by employers.

**7.**—The Principal Act is hereby amended by the substitution for section 257 of the following section:

“257.—The amount of any supplementary benefit duly paid in accordance with this Part by an employer shall be repaid to him by the Minister out of the Fund on application being made, in such manner as may be prescribed and not later than the 29th day of March, 1985, by the employer for such repayment.”.

##### 8 Payments into Fund from moneys provided by Oireachtas.

**8.**—Section 269 of the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion after subsection (7) of the following subsections:

“(8) If, in respect of the financial year ending on the 31st day of December, 1985, the Fund is insufficient to discharge the liabilities imposed on it, the amount by which the Fund is so insufficient shall be paid into the Fund out of moneys provided by the Oireachtas and any amount so payable shall be paid in such manner and at such times as the Minister for Finance may determine.

(9) Any income accruing to the Fund after the 31st day of December, 1985, shall be paid into the Exchequer in such manner and at such times as the Minister for Finance may determine.”.

##### 9 Amendment of Part II of First Schedule to Principal Act (Excepted Employments).

**9.**—Part II of the First Schedule to the Principal Act is hereby amended by the insertion after paragraph 10 of the following paragraph:

“11.—Employment under a scheme administered by the Department of Labour and known as the Social Employment Scheme.”.

##### 10 Short title, construction and collective citation.

**10.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Social Welfare (Amendment) Act, 1984.

(2) The Social Welfare Acts, 1981 to 1984, and this Act shall be construed together as one.

(3) The collective citation “the Social Welfare Acts, 1981 to 1984” 40 shall include this Act.
