---
title: "National Health Insurance Act , 1925"
identifier: "IE-1925-act-36"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1925-07-15"
last_updated: "1925-07-15"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1925/act/36"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Árachas Sláinte Náisiúnta, 1925"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1925/36"
---
# National Health Insurance Act , 1925

##### 1 Definitions.

**1.—**In this Act—

the expression “Act of 1924” means the National Health Insurance Act, 1924 (No. 30 of 1924);

the expression “Medical Certification Fund” means the Medical Certification Fund established in pursuance of the Act of 1924.

##### 2 Provision of funds for Medical Certification Fund.

**2.—**(1) There shall be debited—

(*a*) to the benefit fund of every approved society the sum of fivepence in respect of each member (not being a serving soldier) of that approved society, and

(*b*) to the Military Forces (International Arrangements) Insurance Fund the sum of fivepence in respect of each member (not being a serving soldier) of that fund, and

(*c*) to the Deposit Contributors Fund the sum of fivepence in respect of each member of that fund, and

(*d*) to the Exempt Persons Fund the sum of twopence and one halfpenny in respect of each member of that fund.

(2) The several sums directed by the foregoing sub-section to be debited to the benefit fund of every approved society, the Military Forces (International Arrangements) Fund, the Deposit Contributors Fund, and the Exempt Persons Fund respectively shall be credited to the Medical Certification Fund.

(3) For the purpose of calculating the total sum to be debited to any fund under this section the total number of members(not being serving soldiers) of a society or fund shall be calculated in such manner as the Irish Insurance Commissioners shall direct.

##### 3 Certain sums to be transferred from Stamps Sales Account to Medical Certification Fund.

**3.—**(1) Subject to the limitation hereinafter prescribed, such part as the Irish Insurance Commissioners shall direct of the sums which under section 29 of the National Health Insurance Act, 1918 (which provides for the disposal of sums unclaimed in the Stamps Sales Account) would be carried to the National Health Insurance Central Fund shall, instead of being so carried, be credited to the Medical Certification Fund.

(2) The total amount to be credited to the Medical Certification Fund under this section shall not exceed such sum as, together with the sums to be credited to the said Fund under the foregoing provisions of this Act, shall be sufficient to meet the sums directed by this Act to be paid out of the Medical Certification Fund.

##### 4 Sums to be paid out of the Medical Certification Fund.

**4.—**There shall be paid out of the Medical Certification Fund—

(*a*) such sums in respect of the year 1925 as the Irish Insurance Commissioners with the approval of the Minister for Finance may determine to be payable to medical practitioners for medical certification and

(*b*) to every approved society such sum calculated at a rate not exceeding one penny and one halfpenny per annum in respect of each member (not being a serving soldier) of the society as may be required to meet any sums sanctioned by the Minister for Finance for payment after the 31st day of December, 1924, to that approved society in respect of the cost of obtaining second medical opinions prior to the first day of February, 1925, and

(*c*) such sum as may be required to meet the cost of obtaining second medical opinions on or after the 1st day of February, 1925, through the medium of medical referees under a scheme to be established for that purpose by the Irish Insurance Commissioners with the approval of the Minister for Finance.

##### 5 Commencement, short title and construction.

**5.—**(1) This Act shall be deemed to have come into operation on and shall be in force and have effect as on and from the first day of January, 1925.

(2) This Act may be cited as the National Health Insurance Act, 1925, and shall be construed as one with the National Health Insurance Acts, 1911 to 1924.

(3) The National Health Insurance Acts, 1911 to 1924, and this Act may be cited together as the National Health Insurance Acts, 1911 to 1925.
