---
title: "Defence Forces (Pensions)(Amendment) Act , 1968"
identifier: "IE-1968-act-4"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1968-03-13"
last_updated: "1968-03-13"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1968/act/4"
title_ga: "An tAcht Fórsaí Cosanta (Pinsin)(Leasú), 1968"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1968/4"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Defence Forces (Pensions)(Amendment) Act , 1968

##### 1 The Principal Act.

**1.**—In this Act “the Principal Act” means the Defence Forces (Pensions) Act, 1932.

##### 2 Resolution of Houses of Oireachtas not required in respect of certain pension schemes.

**2.**—Notwithstanding section 2, 4 or 5 of the Principal Act, where—

(*a*) a pension scheme relates to any one or more than one of the benefits to which this Act applies and provides solely for an increase or increases in any one or more than one of those benefits, and

(*b*) that increase (or those increases) arises (or arise) solely from increases in the emoluments of members of the Forces or forms (or form) part of a general increase in pensions payable in respect of public service,

the following provisions shall have effect:

(i) that pension scheme shall not require a resolution of either House of the Oireachtas in order to come into force but shall come into force as provided by that scheme;

(ii) if a resolution annulling that pension scheme is passed by either House of the Oireachtas within the next subsequent twenty-one days on which the House has sat after the scheme is laid before that House, the scheme shall be annulled accordingly but without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.

##### 3 Application of this Act.

**3.**—This Act applies to the following benefits under the Principal Act—

(*a*) retired pay, pensions and gratuities for or in respect of officers of the Forces,

(*b*) pensions and gratuities for non-commissioned officers and men of the Forces,

(*c*) pensions and gratuities for members of the Army Nursing Service,

(*d*) pensions and gratuities for members of the Chaplaincy Service.

##### 4 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**4.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Defence Forces (Pensions) (Amendment) Act, 1968.

(2) The Defence Forces (Pensions) Act, 1932 to 1957, and this Act may be cited together as the Defence Forces (Pensions) Acts, 1932 to 1968, and shall be construed together as one Act.
