---
title: "Harbours, Docks and Piers (Charges) Act , 1936"
identifier: "IE-1936-act-4"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1936-03-14"
last_updated: "1936-03-14"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1936/act/4"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Chuanta, Duganna agus Piaranna (Éilithe), 1936"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1936/4"
---
# Harbours, Docks and Piers (Charges) Act , 1936

##### 1 Repeal of the Harbours, Docks and Piers (Temporary Increase of Charges) Act, 1920.

**1.**—The Harbours, Docks, and Piers (Temporary Increase of Charges) Act, 1920, is hereby repealed, save that sub-section (5) of section 1, as amended by sub-section (3) of section 51 of the Railways Act, 1924 (No. 29 of 1924), section 2, as so amended, and sections 3 and 4 thereof shall, notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2) of section 6 of that Act or in the Expiring Laws Act, 1935 (No. 46 of 1935), continue, until the Oireachtas otherwise determines, in force for the purposes of the revision under sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Statutory Undertakings (Continuance of Charges) (No. 2) Act, 1923 (No. 16 of 1923), of the orders specified in the second column of the Third Schedule to that Act, but no further or otherwise.

##### 2 Continuance of certain orders.

**2.**—Every order made under the Harbours, Docks, and Piers (Temporary Increase of Charges) Act, 1920, which is in force immediately before the passing of this Act shall be deemed to have been made as of its actual date (notwithstanding that such date is previous to the passing of the next-mentioned Act) by the Minister for Industry and Commerce under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Harbours (Regulation of Rates) Act, 1934 (No. 2 of 1934), and that Act shall apply to every such order and every such order shall have force and effect accordingly.

##### 3 Partial repeal of the Statutory Undertakings (Continuance of Charges) (No. 2) Act, 1923.

**3.**—Section 2 of the Statutory Undertakings (Continuance of Charges) (No. 2) Act, 1923 (No. 16 of 1923), and the Second Schedule to that Act are hereby repealed.

##### 4 Short title.

**4.**—This Act may be cited as the Harbours, Docks, and Piers (Charges) Act, 1936.
