---
title: "Constitution (Amendment No. 1) Act , 1925"
identifier: "IE-1925-act-30"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1925-07-11"
last_updated: "1925-07-11"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1925/act/30"
title_ga: "An tAcht Bunreachta (Leasú Uimh. 1), 1925"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1925/30"
---
# Constitution (Amendment No. 1) Act , 1925

##### 1 Commencement of term of office of members of Seanad Eireann.

**1.**—The Constitution shall be and is hereby amended by the insertion therein of the following Article immediately after the Article 31 now contained therein, that is to say:—

“31 A. The duration of the term of office of a member of the first Seanad Eireann shall be reckoned from the beginning of the day on which this Constitution comes into operation, and the duration of the term of office of a member of Seanad Eireann elected under Article 32 of this Constitution shall be reckoned from the beginning of the appropriate triennial anniversary of that day.”

##### 2 Date of elections of members of Seanad Eireann.

**2.**—The Constitution shall be and is hereby amended by the insertion therein of the following Article immediately after the Article 32 now contained therein, that is to say:—

“32 A. An election of members of Seanad Eireann under Article 32 of this Constitution may be held at any time not more than three months before nor more than three months after the conclusion of the period of three years mentioned in that Article.

A person who, after the day appointed by law for the completion of the formation of the panel of candidates and before the conclusion of the three years period running on that day, is chosen under Article 34 of this Constitution to fill a vacancy caused by the death, resignation, or disqualification of a member of Seanad Eireann (other than a member about to retire at the conclusion of the said period) shall hold office until the conclusion of the next three years period and shall then retire.”

##### 3 Amendment of Article 34 of the Constitution.

**3.**—The Constitution shall be and is hereby amended by the deletion at the end of Article 34 of the words “Provided that the sixteenth member shall be deemed to have filled the vacancy first created in order of time and so on” and the substitution therefor of the words, “Provided that the sixteenth member shall be deemed to have filled the vacancy created by the death or withdrawal of the Senator, or one of the Senators, the unexpired period of whose term of office was greatest at the time of the election and so on.”

##### 4 Short title.

**4.**—This Act may be cited as the Constitution (Amendment No. 1) Act, 1925.
