---
title: "Tribunals of Inquiry (Evidence) (Amendment) (No. 2) Act  1998"
identifier: "IE-1998-act-C18"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1998-06-12"
last_updated: "1998-06-03"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1998/act/18"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Binsí Fiosrúcháin (Fianaise) (Leasú) (Uimh. 2), 1998"
long_title_ga: "Acht do leasú na nAchtanna um Binsí FiosrúchAin (Fianaise), 1921 go 1998"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1998/18"
---
# Tribunals of Inquiry (Evidence) (Amendment) (No. 2) Act  1998

##### 1 Amendment of Article 29 of the Constitution.

**1.**—Article 29 of the Constitution is hereby amended as follows:

(*a*)the subsections the texts of which are set out in *Part I* of the *Schedule* to this Act shall be inserted after subsection 4 of section 4 of the Irish text,

(*b*)the subsections the texts of which are set out in *Part II* of the *Schedule* to this Act shall be inserted after subsection 4 of section 4 of the English text,

(*c*)subsections 5 and 6 of section 4 of both texts shall be numbered as subsections 7 and 8.

##### 2 Citation.

**2.**—(1)The amendment of the Constitution effected by this Act shall be called the Eighteenth Amendment of the Constitution.

(2)This Act may be cited as the Eighteenth Amendment of the Constitution Act, 1998.

## SCHEDULE

## Part I

5Tig leis an Stát Conradh Amstardam ag leasú an Chonartha ar an Aontas Eorpach, na gConarthaí ag bunú na gComhphobal Eorpach agus Ionstraimí gaolmhara áirithe, a síníodh in Amstardam an 2ú lá de Dheireadh Fómhair, 1997, a dhaingniú.

6Tig leis an Stát na roghnuithe nó na roghanna a fheidhmiú a shocraítear le hAirteagail 1.11, 2.5 agus 2.15 den Chonradh dá dtagraítear i bhfo-alt 5 den alt seo nó fúthu agus leis an dara Prótacal agus leis an gceathrú Prótacal atá leagtha amach sa Chonradh sin nó fúthu ach beidh aon fheidhmiú den sórt sin faoi réir ceadú a fháil roimh ré ó dhá Theach an Oireachtais.

## Part II

5The State may ratify the Treaty of Amsterdam amending the Treaty on European Union, the Treaties establishing the European Communities and certain related Acts signed at Amsterdam on the 2nd day of October, 1997.

6The State may exercise the options or discretions provided by or under Articles 1.11, 2.5 and 2.15 of the Treaty referred to in subsection 5 of this section and the second and fourth Protocols set out in the said Treaty but any such exercise shall be subject to the prior approval of both Houses of the Oireachtas.
