---
title: "Control of Imports (Amendment) Act , 1964"
identifier: "IE-1964-act-20"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "1964-07-07"
last_updated: "1964-07-07"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1964/act/20"
title_ga: "An tAcht chun Allmhairí a Rialú (Leasú), 1964"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/1964/20"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Control of Imports (Amendment) Act , 1964

##### 1 Interpretation.

**1.**—(1) In this Act—

“the Principal Act” means the Control of Imports Act, 1934;

“quota order” means an order made under section 3 of the Principal Act;

“quota period order” means an order made under subsection (1) or (2) of section 6 of the Principal Act.

(2) References in section 2 of the Principal Act to that Act shall be construed as including references to this Act.

##### 2 Power to exempt quota order from section 7 of Principal Act.

**2.**—The Government may in and by a quota order declare that section 7 of the Principal Act shall not apply in relation to that quota order.

##### 3 Power to import without licence in certain cases.

**3.**—Notwithstanding section 5 of the Principal Act, whenever—

(i) the Government have declared under this Act that section 7 of the Principal Act shall not apply in relation to a particular quota order,

(ii) the Government have made a quota period order in respect of that quota order, and

(iii) the Revenue Commissioners are satisfied that the quantity of goods to which that quota order applies appointed to be the quota by the quota period order then in force in respect of that quota order has not been imported in the quota period appointed by that quota period order,

it shall be lawful to import, without a licence under the Principal Act, goods to which that quota order applies.

##### 4 Power to make quota order in respect of goods to which existing quota order relates.

**4.**—The Government may make a quota order containing an exemption referred to in section 5 of this Act notwithstanding that at the commencement of such quota order there is in force a quota order in relation to goods of a description to some or all of which the quota order first mentioned in this section relates.

##### 5 Power to exempt goods from groups of countries from quota orders.

**5.**—The Government may in and by a quota order exempt from the prohibition effected by the order goods which are shown to the satisfaction of the Revenue Commissioners either (as shall be specified in the Order)—

(*a*) to have been manufactured or produced in a specified group or groups of countries,

(*b*) to have been consigned to the importer from a specified group or groups of countries, or

(*c*) to have been manufactured or produced in a specified group or groups of countries and consigned to the importer from that group or those groups.

##### 6 Short title and collective citation.

**6.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Control of Imports (Amendment) Act, 1964.

(2) The Control of Imports Acts, 1934 to 1963, and this Act may be cited together as the Control of Imports Acts, 1934 to 1964.
