---
title: "Health (General Practitioner Service) Act 2018"
identifier: "IE-2018-act-13"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "2018-07-17"
last_updated: "2018-07-17"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2018/act/13"
title_ga: "An tAcht Sláinte (Seirbhís Lia-Chleachtóirí Ginearálta), 2018
"
long_title_ga: "Acht do leasú an Achta Sláinte, 1970 chun socrú a dhéanamh maidir le seirbhís liachta agus máinliachta lia-chleachtóirí ginearálta a chur ar fáil do dhaoine atá ag fáil liúntais áirithe faoi na hAchtanna Leasa Shóisialaigh; agus do dhéanamh socrú i dtaobh nithe gaolmhara."
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/2018/13"
related_docs: "digest, memo"
---
# Health (General Practitioner Service) Act 2018

##### 1. **Definitions**

**1.** In this Act—

“Act of 2014” means the Health (General Practitioner Service) Act 2014;

“Principal Act” means the Health Act 1970.

##### 2. **Amendment of section 47 of Principal Act**

**2.** Section 47 of the Principal Act is amended in subsection (1) (amended by section 2 of the Act of 2014) by the substitution of “58A, 58B or 58D” for “58A or 58B”.

##### 3. **Amendment of section 47A of Principal Act**

**3.** Section 47A (amended by section 3 of the Act of 2014) of the Principal Act is amended by the substitution of “58A, 58B or 58D” for “58A or 58B”.

##### 4. **General practitioner medical and surgical service for persons in receipt of carer’s allowance or carer’s benefit**

**4.** The Health Act 1970 is amended by the insertion of the following section after section 58C (inserted by section 5 of the Act of 2014):

“58D. (1) The Health Service Executive shall make available without charge a general practitioner medical and surgical service for a person who is in receipt of—

(a) carer’s benefit within the meaning of Chapter 14 of Part 2 of the Act of 2005,

(b) carer’s allowance within the meaning of Chapter 8 of Part 3 of the Act of 2005, or

(c) a payment under section 186A of the Act of 2005.

(2) A person shall, when requested to do so by the Health Service Executive, furnish to the Health Service Executive such information as the Health Service Executive considers necessary for it to establish that the person is, or continues to be, entitled under subsection (1) to the service referred to in that subsection.

(3) Where a person fails or refuses to furnish the information requested by the Health Service Executive under subsection (2) within such reasonable period as is specified in the request, the Health Service Executive may treat the person concerned as if he or she was not entitled under subsection (1) to the service referred to in that subsection.

(4) Insofar as considered practicable by the Health Service Executive, a choice of medical practitioner shall be offered under the general practitioner medical and surgical service made available under this section.

(5) In this section “Act of 2005” means the Social Welfare Consolidation Act 2005.”.

##### 5. **Short title, collective citation and commencement**

**5.** (1) This Act may be cited as the Health (General Practitioner Service) Act 2018.

(2) The Health Acts 1947 to 2015 and this Act may be cited together as the Health Acts 1947 to 2018.

(3) This Act shall come into operation on such day or days as the Minister for Health may appoint by order or orders either generally or with reference to any particular purpose or provision and different days may be so appointed for different purposes or different provisions.
