---
title: "Intoxicating Liquor (National Conference Centre) Act  2010"
identifier: "IE-2010-act-9"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "2010-05-31"
last_updated: "2010-05-31"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2010/act/9"
title_ga: "An tAcht Deochanna Meisciúla (An Lárionad Náisiúnta Comhdhála), 2010"
long_title_ga: "Acht do dhéanamh socrú maidir le ceadúnas a eisiúint á údarú deochanna meisciúla a dhíol in imthosca áirithe sa Lárionad Náisiúnta Comhdhála, Baile Átha Cliath"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/2010/9"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Intoxicating Liquor (National Conference Centre) Act  2010

##### 1. Sale of intoxicating liquor at National Conference Centre.

**1**.— (1) In this section—

“Act of 1927” means the Intoxicating Liquor Act 1927;

“Convention Centre” means the National Conference Centre known as The Convention Centre, Dublin, situated at Spencer Dock, North Wall Quay, in the City of Dublin;

“convention event” means a conference, congress, convention, seminar or symposium, held in and involving the use of some or all of the conference facilities of the Convention Centre, and includes a reception, dinner, banquet or stage show held as part of such an event involving the use of some or all of the facilities of the Convention Centre;

“Licensing Acts” means the Licensing Acts 1833 to 2008;

“Minister” means the Minister for Tourism, Culture and Sport;

“non-convention event” means a trade fair, live sporting event, reception, dinner, banquet or stage show, held in and involving the use of some or all of the facilities of the Convention Centre, and which event is not held as part of a conference, congress, convention, seminar or symposium;

“prescribed” means prescribed by regulations made by the Minister.

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Licensing Acts, the Revenue Commissioners shall, subject to *subsections (8)* and *(9)*, on application to them being made in that behalf by the operator of the Convention Centre or a person nominated by such operator, issue a licence for the sale of intoxicating liquor at the Convention Centre.

(3) Subject to *subsections (8)* and *(9)*, the Revenue Commissioners shall renew a licence so issued.

(4) The Minister shall by regulations prescribe an area of the Convention Centre—

(*a*) for the purposes of convention events, and

(*b*) for the purposes of non-convention events.

(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Licensing Acts 1833 to 2008, a licence issued or renewed under this section shall operate to authorise—

(*a*) the sale of intoxicating liquor to persons attending or taking part in a convention event in an area of the Convention Centre for consumption in such area during the period beginning one hour before the commencement of the event, but not earlier than 10.30 a.m., and ending—

(i) one hour after the conclusion of the event or midnight, whichever is the earlier, or

(ii) where the convention event is a reception, dinner, banquet or stage show which is held as part of a conference, congress, convention, seminar or symposium, one hour after the conclusion of the event or 2.00 a.m., whichever is the earlier,

and

(*b*) subject to section 2 (prohibited hours) and section 5 (special exemption orders) of the Act of 1927, the sale of intoxicating liquor to persons attending or taking part in a non-convention event in an area of the Convention Centre for consumption in such area.

(6) In *paragraph (a)* of *subsection (5)*, a reference to an area shall be construed as an area prescribed pursuant to *subsection (4)(a)* for the purposes of convention events.

(7) In *paragraph (b)* of *subsection (5)*, a reference to an area shall be construed as an area prescribed pursuant to *subsection (4)(b)* for the purposes of non-convention events.

(8) There shall be charged, levied and paid on every licence issued pursuant to this section, and on its renewal, a duty of excise of €500.

(9) A licence shall not be issued or renewed by the Revenue Commissioners under this section unless a tax clearance certificate pursuant to section 1094 of the Taxes Consolidation Act 1997 has been issued and is in force in relation to the operator of the Convention Centre and where application is made for the licence or renewal by a person nominated by the operator by such person also.

(10) A licence issued under this section is an on-licence for the purposes of section 5 of the Act of 1927.

(11) Regulations made by the Minister under this section may contain such incidental, supplementary and consequential provisions as appear to the Minister to be necessary or expedient for the purposes of the regulations.

##### 2. Amendment of section 1094 of Taxes Consolidation Act 1997.

**2**.— Section 1094(1) of the Taxes Consolidation Act 1997 is amended—

(*a*) in the definition of “licence”—

(i) in paragraph (*n*), by the substitution of “1910,” for “1910, and”,

(ii) in paragraph (*o*), by the substitution of “2003, and” for “2003;”, and

(iii) by the insertion of the following paragraph after paragraph (*o*):

“(*p*) *section 1* of the *Intoxicating Liquor (National Conference Centre) Act 2010;”*,

and

(*b*) in the definition of “specified date”, by the substitution of “paragraphs (*a*) to (*p*)” for “paragraphs (*a*) to (*o*)”.

##### 3. Short title, collective citation and construction.

**3**.— (1) This Act may be cited as the Intoxicating Liquor (National Conference Centre) Act 2010.

(2) The Licensing Acts 1833 to 2008 and *section 1*may be cited together as the Licensing Acts 1833 to 2010 and shall be construed together as one.
