---
title: "Welfare of Greyhounds Act  2011"
identifier: "IE-2011-act-C29"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "2011-11-16"
last_updated: "2011-11-17"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2011/act/29"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Leas Cúnna, 2011"
long_title_ga: "Acht do dhéanamh socrú maidir le leas cúnna, do rialáil oibriú bunachas pórúcháin cúnna agus do bhunú clár de bhunachais pórúcháin cúnna"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/2011/29"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Welfare of Greyhounds Act  2011

##### 1. Amendment of Article 35 of the Constitution.

**1**.— Article 35 of the Constitution is hereby amended as follows:

(*a*) the section, the text of which is set out in *Part 1* of the *Schedule*, shall be substituted for section 5 of the Irish text; and

(*b*) the section, the text of which is set out in *Part 2* of the *Schedule*, shall be substituted for section 5 of the English text.

##### 2. Citation.

**2**.— (1) The amendment of the Constitution effected by this Act shall be called the Twenty-Ninth Amendment of the Constitution.

(2) This Act may be cited as the Twenty-Ninth Amendment of the Constitution (Judges’ Remuneration) Act 2011.

## SCHEDULE

## Part 1

5 1Ní cead laghdú a dhéanamh ar luach saothair breithiúna an fad is a bheidh siad in oifig ach amháin de réir an ailt seo.

2Tá luach saothair breithiúna faoi réir gearradh cánacha, tobhach nó muirear eile a ghearrtar le dlí ar dhaoine i gcoitinne nó ar dhaoine a bhaineann le haicme áirithe.

3Más rud é, roimh an alt seo a achtú nó dá éis sin, go ndearnadh nó go ndéantar laghduithe le dlí ar luach saothair daoine a bhaineann le haicmí daoine a n-íoctar a luach saothair as airgead poiblí agus go luaitear sa dlí sin gur ar mhaithe le leas an phobail na laghduithe sin, féadfar socrú a dhéanamh freisin le dlí chun laghduithe comhréireacha a dhéanamh ar luach saothair breithiúna.

## Part 2

5 1The remuneration of judges shall not be reduced during their continuance in office save in accordance with this section.

2The remuneration of judges is subject to the imposition of taxes, levies or other charges that are imposed by law on persons generally or persons belonging to a particular class.

3Where, before or after the enactment of this section, reductions have been or are made by law to the remuneration of persons belonging to classes of persons whose remuneration is paid out of public money and such law states that those reductions are in the public interest, provision may also be made by law to make proportionate reductions to the remuneration of judges.
