---
title: "Civil Service Regulation (Amendment) Act  2005"
identifier: "IE-2005-act-18"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "2005-07-09"
last_updated: "2020-05-29"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2005/act/18"
title_ga: "Acht Rialaithe na Státseirbhíse (Leasú), 2005"
long_title_ga: "Acht do dhéanamh socrú maidir le hAcht Rialuithe na Stát_Sheirbhíse 1956 a leasú, do dhéanamh socrú maidir leis an Acht um Dhífhostú Éagórach 1977 a fheidhmiú maidir le státseirbhísigh áirithe, do dhéanamh socrú maidir leis an Acht um Fhógra Íosta agus Téarmaí Fostaíochta 1973 a fheidhmiú maidir le státseirbhísigh, do dhéanamh socrú maidir leis an Acht Airí agus Rúnaithe 1924 a leasú, do dhéanamh socrú maidir leis an Acht um Ionchúiseamh i gCionta 1974 a leasú, do dhéanamh socrú maidir leis an A"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/2005/18"
related_docs: "memo"
---
## PART 1 Preliminary and General

##### 1. **Citation.**

**1.**—(1) This Act may be cited as the Civil Service Regulation (Amendment) Act 2005.

(2) The Civil Service Regulation Acts 1956 to 1996, and *Part 2* of this Act may be cited together as the Civil Service Regulation Acts 1956 to 2005 and shall be construed together as one.

(3) The Unfair Dismissals Acts 1977 to 2001, and *Part 6* of this Act may be cited together as the Unfair Dismissals Acts 1977 to 2005 and shall be construed together as one.

(4) The Minimum Notice and Terms of Employment Acts 1973 to 2001, and *Part 7* of this Act may be cited together as the Minimum Notice and Terms of Employment Acts 1973 to 2005 and shall be construed together as one.

##### 2. **Commencement.**

**2.**—(1) This Act, other than *Parts 9* and *11*, shall come into operation on such day or days as the Minister may appoint by order or orders either generally or with reference to any particular purpose or provision and different days may be so appointed for different provisions or different purposes.

(2) *Part 9* of this Act shall come into operation on such day or days as the Taoiseach may appoint by order or orders either generally or with reference to any particular purpose or provision and different days may be so appointed for different provisions or different purposes.

(3) *Part 11* of this Act is deemed to have come into operation on 1 April 2004.

## PART 2 Amendment of Civil Service Regulation Act of 1956

##### 3. **Interpretation (Part 2).**

**3.**—In this Part—

“Minister” means the Minister for Finance;

“Principal Act” means the Civil Service Regulation Act 1956.

##### 4. **Amendment of section 1 (Interpretation) of Principal Act.**

**4.**—Section 1 of the Principal Act is amended—

(*a*) by inserting after the definition of “established service” the following definition:

“ ‘Head’ in relation to a Scheduled Office, means the person appointed as the principal officer of the Scheduled Office, or where no such person has been appointed, the person designated by order of the Government to be Head of the Scheduled Office for the purposes of this Act;”,

(*b*) by inserting after the definition of “member of the staff of the Houses of the Oireachtas” the following definition:

“ ‘Ministerial Private Office appointment’ has the same meaning as the meaning assigned to ‘special adviser’ in section 19 of the Ethics in Public Office Act 1995;”,

(*c*) by inserting after the definition of “the Minister” the following definition:

“ ‘Minister of the Government’ includes—

(*a*) in relation to a Scheduled Office within the meaning of the Public Service Management Act 1997 which is specified in column (1) of Part 1 of the Schedule to that Act, the person who holds the office specified in column (2) of that Schedule at that reference number, whether or not such person has consented to the application of that Act to such Scheduled Office, and

(*b*) in relation to a Scheduled Office which is specified in column (1) of Schedule 2 to this Act, the person specified in column (2) of that Schedule at that reference number.”,

and

(*d*) by inserting after the definition of “officer to whom the Act of 1919 applies” the following definitions:

“ ‘Scheduled Office’ means an office or branch of the public service specified in—

(*a*) column (1) of Part I of the Schedule to the Public Service Management Act 1997 (whether or not that Act applies to the Scheduled Office concerned),

(*b*) Part II of the Schedule to the Public Service Management Act 1997, and

(*c*) column (1) of Schedule 2 to this Act;

‘Secretary General’ has the meaning assigned to it by the Public Service Management Act 1997;”.

##### 5. **Appointment of Head of Scheduled Office.**

**5.**—The Principal Act is amended by inserting after section 1 the following section:

##### 6. **Appropriate authority.**

**6.**—The Principal Act is amended by substituting for section 2 the following:

“2.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) and section 5, in this Act ‘appropriate authority’ means—

(*a*) in relation to a civil servant—

(i) holding a position to which that civil servant was appointed by the Government, or

(ii) holding a position as a Commissioner of the Revenue Commissioners pursuant to Article 7 of the Revenue Commissioners Order 1923,

the Government,

(*b*) in relation to a civil servant who is of the grade of Principal or of an equivalent or superior grade to whom paragraph (*a*) does not apply, the Minister of the Government by whom the power of appointing a successor to that civil servant would for the time being be exercisable,

(*c*) in relation to a civil servant below the grade or rank of Principal or an equivalent grade, the Secretary General of the Department or the Head of the Scheduled Office in which the civil servant is serving,

(*d*) in relation to a civil servant holding a Ministerial Private Office appointment and who provides a service to a Minister of the Government, the Minister of the Government to whom that service is provided, and

(*e*) in relation to a civil servant holding a Ministerial Private Office appointment and who provides a service to a Minister of State, the Minister of State to whom that service is provided.

(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), in this Act ‘appropriate authority’ means—

(*a*) in relation to a civil servant who is the Secretary General of the Office of the Houses of the Oireachtas or the Clerk-Assistant of Dáil Éireann, in respect of matters directly related to the business of Dáil Éireann, the Chairman of Dáil Éireann, in all other respects, the Houses of the Oireachtas Commission,

(*b*) in relation to a civil servant who is the Clerk or Clerk-Assistant of Seanad Éireann, in respect of matters directly related to the business of Seanad Éireann, the Chairman of Seanad Éireann, in all other respects, the Houses of the Oireachtas Commission,

(*c*) in relation to a civil servant who is the Superintendent, Houses of the Oireachtas or the Captain of the Guard, Houses of the Oireachtas—

(i) in respect of matters directly related to the business of Dáil Éireann, the Chairman of Dáil Éireann,

(ii) in respect of matters directly related to the business of Seanad Éireann, the Chairman of Seanad Éireann,

(iii) in all other respects, the Houses of the Oireachtas Commission,

(*d*) in relation to a member of the staff of the Houses of the Oireachtas Commission who is of the grade of Principal or of an equivalent or superior grade, the Houses of the Oireachtas Commission,

(*e*) in relation to a member of the staff of the Houses of the Oireachtas Commission below the grade or rank of Principal or an equivalent grade, the Secretary General of the Office of the Houses of the Oireachtas,

(*f*) in relation to a civil servant who is of the grade of Principal or of an equivalent or superior grade to whom subsection (1)(*a*)(i) does not apply, who is serving in the Office of the Secretary General to the President, the Taoiseach, and

(*g*) in relation to a civil servant below the grade or rank of Principal or an equivalent grade, who is serving in the Office of the Secretary General to the President, the Secretary General to the President.

(3) For the purposes of paragraph (*c*) of subsection (1) ‘Department’ includes such bodies or organisations (whether established by or under statute, or otherwise) other than a Scheduled Office, for which the Minister having charge of the Department concerned is responsible.

(4) For the purposes of paragraph (*c*) of subsection (1) ‘Scheduled Office’ includes such bodies or organisations (whether established by or under statute, or otherwise) for which the Minister of the Government having charge of the Scheduled Office concerned is responsible.

(5) In this section ‘Minister of State’ means a person appointed under section 1(1) of the Ministers and Secretaries (Amendment) (No. 2) Act 1977 to be a Minister of State.

(6) A reference in this section to ‘the grade of Principal or of an equivalent or superior grade’ shall be construed as a reference to the general service grade of principal or a position or office in respect of which the maximum salary is not less than the maximum salary of a general service grade principal.”.

##### 7. **Tenure of office of established civil servants.**

**7.**—The Principal Act is amended by substituting for section 5 the following sections:

##### 8. **Appointment of civil servants beyond normal retirement age.**

**8.**—The Principal Act is amended by the insertion after section 8 of the following section:

##### 9. **Amendment of section 14 (Remuneration of civil servant suspended from duty) of Principal Act.**

**9.**—The Principal Act is amended by the substitution for section 14 of the following section:

##### 10. **Amendment of section 15 (Disciplinary measures) of Principal Act.**

**10.**— The Principal Act is amended by the substitution for section 15 of the following:

##### 11. **Amendment of section 16 (Unauthorised absences from duty) of Principal Act.**

**11.**—Section 16 of the Principal Act is amended by substituting the following subsections for subsection (2):

“(2) A period when a civil servant refuses to carry out the duties of his grade shall as respects the civil servant concerned be considered to be a period of unauthorised absence from duty.

(3) If any question arises in relation to the application of subsection (1) or (2) as to whether—

(*a*) a particular period of absence from duty of a civil servant is a period of unauthorised absence from duty, or

(*b*) a particular action taken by a civil servant constitutes a refusal to carry out the duties of his grade, or

(*c*) a refusal by a civil servant to perform a particular duty constitutes a refusal to carry out the duties of his grade,

the question shall be determined by the appropriate authority.”.

##### 12. **Appointment of officers of the Attorney General.**

**12.**—The Principal Act is amended by substituting for section 19 the following section:

##### 13. **Insertion of Schedule 2 to Principal Act.**

**13.**—The Principal Act is amended by the insertion of the matter in the *Schedule* to this Act after the Schedule to that Act as Schedule 2 to that Act.

##### 14. **Cesser of delegation of powers under Principal Act.**

**14.**—Where in any enactment provision is made for the delegation by a Minister of the Government of any of the powers exercisable by that Minister under—

(*a*) the Civil Service Regulation Act 1956,

(*b*) the Civil Service Regulation Acts 1956 and 1958, or

(*c*) the Civil Service Regulation Acts 1956 to 1996,

to another person then, subject to the provisions of *section 15*, on the coming into operation of this section any such delegation in force shall stand revoked, and such power of delegation shall thereafter cease to be exercisable.

##### 15. **Transitional.**

**15.**—Where there are in being on the coming into operation of this Part proceedings under sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13, 14, 15 and 16 of the Principal Act, or procedures or measures under those sections have commenced then such proceedings, procedures or measures shall continue in being until concluded or completed as if the provisions of this Part had not been brought into operation.

## PART 3 STAFF OF THE HOUSES OF THE OIREACHTAS COMMISSION

##### 16. **Amendment of section 20 of Staff of the Houses of the Oireachtas Act 1959.**

**16.**—The Staff of the Houses of the Oireachtas Act 1959 is amended by the substitution of the following for section 20:

##### 17. **Amendment of section 12 of Houses of the Oireachtas Commission Act 2003.**

**17.**—Section 12 of the Houses of the Oireachtas Commission Act 2003 is amended by the deletion of paragraphs (*e*) and (*f*) of subsection (3).

##### 18. **Amendment of section 16 of Houses of the Oireachtas Commission Act 2003.**

**18.**—Section 16 of the Houses of the Oireachtas Commission Act 2003 is amended in paragraph (*g*) of subsection (1) by the deletion of “(Higher)”.

## PART 4 Amendment of Comptroller and Auditor-General Act 1923

##### 19. **Amendment of Comptroller and Auditor-General Act 1923.**

**19.**—The Comptroller and Auditor-General Act 1923 is amended by the substitution of the following for section 4:

## PART 5 Amendment of Ombudsman Act 1980

##### 20. **Amendment of Ombudsman Act1980.**

**20.**—Section 10 of the Ombudsman Act 1980 is amended by substituting the following for subsection (1):

“(1) (*a*) The power of appointing a person to be an officer or servant of the Ombudsman shall be vested in the Ombudsman.

(*b*) The Minister for Finance shall from time to time determine the number of officers and servants appointed to the Office of the Ombudsman and all such officers and servants shall hold office on such terms and conditions as the Minister for Finance shall determine.”.

## PART 6 Application of Unfair Dismissals Act to Civil Servants

##### 21. **Interpretation (Part 6).**

**21.**—In this Part “Act of 1977” means the Unfair Dismissals Act 1977.

##### 22. **Extension of Unfair Dismissals Act to civil servants.**

**22.**—The Act of 1977 is amended—

(*a*) in section 2(1) by substituting the following for paragraph (*h*):

“(*h*) subject to the provisions of this subsection a person who was employed by or under the State who was dismissed by the Government,”,

and

(*b*) by inserting after section 2 the following section:

## PART 7 Application of Minimum Notice and Terms of Employment Act to Civil Servants

##### 23. **Interpretation (Part 7).**

**23.**—In this Part “Act of 1973” means the Minimum Notice and Terms of Employment Act 1973.

##### 24. **Amendment of section 1 of Act of 1973.**

**24.**—The Act of 1973 is amended in section 1—

(*a*) by inserting, after the definition of “the Act of 1967”, the following definitions:

“ ‘civil servant’ has the same meaning as in the Civil Service Regulation Act 1956;

‘Department’ has the same meaning as in the Public Service Management Act 1997;”,

and

(*b*) by inserting, after the definition of “prescribed”, the following definition:

“ ‘Scheduled Office’ has the same meaning as it has in the Civil Service Regulation Act 1956;”.

##### 25. **Application of Act to civil servants.**

**25.**—The Act of 1973 is amended by inserting after section 1 the following section:

##### 26. **Extension of Act of 1973 to civil servants.**

**26.**—The Act of 1973 is amended—

(*a*) in subsection (1) of section 3 by the deletion of paragraph (*c*), and

(*b*) in the First Schedule by the insertion after paragraph 13 of the following paragraph:

“14. For the avoidance of doubt, a civil servant shall be considered as having given continuous service, notwithstanding the fact that the civil servant may have served in more than one Department or Scheduled Office provided that the service would otherwise, by virtue of the provisions of this Schedule, be considered to be continuous.”.

## PART 8 Secretary General to the President

##### 27. **Secretary General to the President.**

**27.**—(1) The office or post established by the Presidential Establishment Act 1938 known as the secretary to the President shall be known as the Secretary General to the President, and a reference in any enactment to the secretary to the President shall be construed as a reference to the Secretary General to the President.

(2) A reference in any enactment to the Office of the Secretary to the President shall be construed as a reference to the Office of the Secretary General to the President.

## PART 9 Additional Functions of Director of Public Prosecutions

##### 28. **Amendment of section 6 of Ministers and Secretaries Act 1924.**

**28.**—Section 6 of the Ministers and Secretaries Act 1924 is amended by the insertion of the following subsections after subsection (1):

“(1A) Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this section the administration and control of the business, powers, authorities, duties and functions, vested in or exercised by the Attorney General by virtue of subsection (1) of this section as relate to local State Solicitors are transferred to the Director of Public Prosecutions (established by the Prosecution of Offences Act 1974).

(1B) Nothing in subsection (1A) shall affect the operation of any contract or agreement in force at the time of coming into operation of that subsection.”.

##### 29. **Additional function of Director of Public Prosecutions.**

**29.**—Section 3 of the Prosecution of Offences Act 1974 is amended by the insertion after subsection (1) of the following subsection:

“(1A) The Director shall in addition to the functions specified in subsection (1) have the powers, duties and functions vested in the Director by virtue of section 6(1A) of the Ministers and Secretaries Act 1924 relating to local State Solicitors.”.

##### 30. **Direction to local State Solicitors.**

**30.**—The Prosecution of Offences Act 1974 is amended by the insertion after section 4 of the following section:

“4A.—(1) The Director may direct a local State Solicitor to perform on his behalf and in accordance with his instructions any particular function of the Director in relation to a particular case or cases or in all cases in which that function falls to be performed.

(2) The Director may, without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder, revoke a direction given by him under this section.

(3) The fact that a function of the Director has been performed by him (whether it has been so performed personally or by virtue of subsection (1) of this section) may be established, without further proof, in any proceedings by a statement of that fact made—

(*a*) in writing and signed by the Director, or

(*b*) orally to the court concerned by a person appearing on behalf of or prosecuting in the name of the Director.”.

##### 31. **Power of appointment of officers and servants of Director of Public Prosecutions.**

**31.**—Section 2 of the Prosecution of Offences Act 1974 is amended—

(*a*) by substituting the following for subsection (10):

“(10) The Minister for Finance shall from time to time determine the number of officers and servants appointed to the Office of the Director and all such officers and servants shall hold office on such terms and conditions as the Minister for Finance shall determine.”,

and

(*b*) in subsection (11) by substituting “the Director” for “the Taoiseach”.

## PART 10 Amendment of Public Service Management (Recruitment and Appointments) Act 2004.

##### 32. **Amendment of section 15 (Investigations on behalf of Commission) of Public Service Management (Recruitment and Appointments) Act 2004.**

**32.**—The Public Service Management (Recruitment and Appointments) Act 2004 is amended in section 15(11) by substituting “6 months” for “2 years”.

## PART 11 Public Service Superannuation

##### 33. **Public Service Superannuation.**

**33.**—(1) The Superannuation (Prison Officers) Act 1919 is amended in section 1(1)(*a*) by substituting “as the age on retirement at which” for “as the age of retirement which”.

(2) The Public Service Superannuation (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2004 is amended—

(*a*) in section 10 by substituting for subsection (6) the following:

“(6) Nothing in this section shall affect any provision by or under any enactment or public service pension scheme which provides for the award of superannuation benefits at an age earlier than that specified in this section or in the amendments provided for by Part 2 of Schedule 2—

(*a*) on grounds of ill health, or

(*b*) where it is provided for by the provisions of a public service pension scheme, on 31 March 2004, in the case of compulsory cesser of office or position before 65 years of age, or

(*c*) for any other specified purpose under any enactment or public service pension scheme that applies to a new entrant and is approved by the relevant Minister and the Minister after 31 March 2004.”,

and

(*b*) in Schedule 1—

(i) by inserting after paragraph 9 the following:

“9A. EirGrid.”,

(ii) in paragraph 20 by substituting for “relates, including a subsidiary of any subsidiary.” the following:

“relates.”.

