---
title: "Nítrigin Éireann Teoranta Act  2001"
identifier: "IE-2001-act-C21"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "2001-07-03"
last_updated: "2002-03-27"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2001/act/21"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Nítrigin Éireann Teoranta, 2001"
long_title_ga: "Acht dá chumasú don Aire Airgeadais oibleagáidí áirithe de chuid Nítrigin Éireann Teoranta a chomhall, d'aisghairm na nAchtanna um Nítrigin Éireann Teoranta, 1963 go 1993, agus do dhéanamh socrú i dtaobh nithe comhghaolmhara"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/2001/21"
---
# Nítrigin Éireann Teoranta Act  2001

##### 1 Amendment of Articles 13, 15, 28 and 40 of the Constitution.

**1.**—(*a*) The amendments to Articles 13, 15, 28 and 40 of the Constitution which are set out in *Part 1* of the *Schedule* to this Act shall be made in the Irish text.

(*b*) The amendments to those Articles which are set out in *Part 2* of the *Schedule* to this Act shall be made in the English text.

(*c*) Article 15.5 of both texts shall be numbered as Article 15.5.1 and subsections 6 and 7 of Article 40.4 of both texts shall be numbered as subsections 5 and 6 respectively.

##### 2 Citation.

**2.**—(1) The amendment of the Constitution effected by this Act shall be called the Twenty-first Amendment of the Constitution.

(2) This Act may be cited as the Twenty-first Amendment of the Constitution Act, 2001.

## SCHEDULE

## Part 1

In Airteagal 13.6, “, taobh amuigh de chásanna breithe báis,” a scriosadh;

In Airteagal 15.5, an fo-alt seo a leanas a chur isteach:

“2Ní cead don Oireachtas aon dlí a achtú lena ndéanfar socrú chun pionós an bháis a ghearradh.”;

In Airteagal 28.3.3, “seachas Airteagal 15.5.2” a chur isteach i ndiaidh “sa Bhunreacht seo”;

In Airteagal 40.4, fo-alt 5 a scriosadh.

## Part 2

In Article 13.6, to delete “, except in capital cases,”;

In Article 15.5, to insert the following subsection:

“2The Oireachtas shall not enact any law providing for the imposition of the death penalty.”;

In Article 28.3.3, to insert “other than Article 15.5.2” after “Constitution”;

In Article 40.4, to delete subsection 5.
