---
title: "Residential Tenancies Act  2004"
identifier: "IE-2004-act-C27"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "2004-07-19"
last_updated: "2004-06-24"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2004/act/27"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Thionóntachtaí Cónaithe, 2004"
long_title_ga: "Acht do dhéanamh socrú - (a) de réir riachtanais leas an phobail, le haghaidh méid áirithe ráthaíochta tionachta do thionóntaí teaghaisí áirithe, (b) le haghaidh leasuithe ar an dlí um thiarnaí talún agus tionóntaí i ndáil le bunchearta agus bunoibleagáidí gach ceann de na páirtithe i dtionóntachtaí teaghaisí áirithe, (c) d'fhonn gur féidir díospóidí idir na páirtithe sin a réiteach go saor agus go tapa, chun comhlacht a bhunú ar a dtabharfar an Bord um Thionóntachtaí Cónaithe Príobháideacha agu"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/2004/27"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Residential Tenancies Act  2004

##### 1 Amendment of Article 9 of the Constitution.

**1.**—Article 9 of the Constitution is hereby amended as follows:

(*a*) the section, the text of which is set out in *Part 1* of the *Schedule* to this Act, shall be inserted after section 1 of the Irish text,

(*b*) the section, the text of which is set out in *Part 2* of the *Schedule* to this Act, shall be inserted after section 1 of the English text, and

(*c*) section 2 of both texts shall be numbered as section 3.

##### 2 Citation.

**2.**—(1) The amendment of the Constitution effected by this Act shall be called the Twenty-seventh Amendment of the constitution.

(2) This Act may be cited as the Twenty-seventh Amendment of the Constitution Act 2004.

## SCHEDULE

## Part 1

21D'ainneoin aon fhorála eile den Bhunreacht seo, maidir le duine a shaolaítear in oileán na hÉireann, ar a n-áirítear a oileáin agus a fharraigí, agus nach bhfuil aige nó aici, an tráth a shaolaítear an duine sin, tuismitheoir amháin ar a laghad is saoránach d'Éirinn nó atá i dteideal a bheith ina shaoránach nó ina saoránach d'Éirinn, nil teideal ag an duine sin chun saoránacht nó náisiúntacht Éireann, mura ndéanfar socrú ina chomhair sin le dlí.

2Ní bhainfidh an t-alt seo le daoine a saolaíodh roimh dháta achtaithe an ailt seo.

## Part 2

21Notwithstanding any other provision of this Constitution, a person born in the island of Ireland, which includes its islands and seas, who does not have, at the time of the birth of that person, at least one parent who is an Irish citizen or entitled to be an Irish citizen is not entitled to Irish citizenship or nationality, unless provided for by law.

2This section shall not apply to persons born before the date of the enactment of this section.
