---
title: "Courts and Court Officers (Amendment) Act  2007"
identifier: "IE-2007-act-4"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "2007-03-05"
last_updated: "2007-03-05"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2007/act/4"
title_ga: "Acht na gCúirteanna agus na nOifigeach Cúirte (Leasú), 2007"
long_title_ga: "Acht do leasú Acht na gCúirteanna agus na nOifigeach Cúirte 1995 chun foráil a dhéanamh maidir le méadú ar líon breithiúna na hArd-Chúirte, na Cúirte Cuarda agus na Cúirte Dúiche; do leasú Acht na gCúirteanna (Forálacha Forlíontacha) 1961; agus do dhéanamh socrú i dtaobh nithe gaolmhara"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/2007/4"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Courts and Court Officers (Amendment) Act  2007

##### 1. Definitions.

**1**.— In this Act—

“ Act of 1995 ” means the Courts and Court Officers Act 1995;

“ Act of 2004 ” means the Civil Liability and Courts Act 2004.

##### 2. Increase in number of ordinary judges of High Court.

**2**.— The Act of 1995 is amended by the substitution of the following section for section 9 (inserted by section 56(*a*) of the Act of 2004):

“9.— The number of ordinary judges of the High Court shall not be more than 35.”.

##### 3. Increase in number of ordinary judges of Circuit Court.

**3**.— The Act of 1995 is amended by the substitution of the following section for section 10 (inserted by section 56(*b*) of the Act of 2004):

“10.— The number of ordinary judges of the Circuit Court shall not be more than 37.”.

##### 4. Increase in number of judges of District Court.

**4**.— The Act of 1995 is amended by the substitution of the following subsection for subsection (1) (inserted by section 56(*c*) of the Act of 2004) of section 11:

“(1) The number of judges of the District Court in addition to the President of the District Court shall not be more than 60.”.

##### 5. Amendment of Sixth Schedule to Courts (Supplemental Provisions) Act 1961.

**5**.— The Sixth Schedule to the Courts (Supplemental Provisions) Act 1961 is amended in paragraph 2(1) by the substitution of the following clause for clause (*b*) (inserted by section 27(2) of the Courts and Court Officers Act 2002):

“(*b*) Where, at the time of the appointment of a person to be a judge of the District Court, there are 20 judges of the District Court not permanently assigned to particular districts, the Government shall assign that person permanently to a particular district.”.

##### 6. Short title and collective citation.

**6**.—(1) This Act may be cited as the Courts and Court Officers (Amendment) Act 2007.

(2) The Courts (Supplemental Provisions) Acts 1961 to 2003 and this Act may be cited together as the Courts (Supplemental Provisions) Acts 1961 to 2007.
