---
title: "European Arrest Warrant (Application to Third Countries and Amendment) and Extradition (Amendment) Act  2012"
identifier: "IE-2012-act-C30"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "2012-07-24"
last_updated: "2012-06-27"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2012/act/30"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Barántas Gabhála Eorpach (Feidhm maidir le Tríú Tíortha agus Leasú) agus um Eiseachadadh (Leasú), 2012"
long_title_ga: "Acht do dhéanamh socrú maidir le forálacha de chuid an Achta um Barántas Gabhála Eorpach, 2003 a fheidhmiú maidir le stáit seachas Ballstáit in imthosca áirithe; do leasú an Achta um Barántas Gabhála Eorpach, 2003; do leasú an Achta um Eiseachadadh, 1965, an Achta um Eiseachadadh (Leasú), 1987 agus an Achta um Eiseachadadh (Leasú),1994; do thabhairt éifeacht d'Airteagal 2 de Chreat-Chinneadh 2009/299/JHA an 26 Feabhra 2009 ón gComhairle lena leasaítear Creat-Chinntí 2002/584/JHA, 2005/214/JHA, 2"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/2012/30"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# European Arrest Warrant (Application to Third Countries and Amendment) and Extradition (Amendment) Act  2012

##### 1. Amendment of Article 29 of the Constitution.

**1**.— Article 29 of the Constitution is hereby amended as follows:

(*a*) the subsection, the text of which is set out in *Part 1* of the *Schedule*, shall be inserted after subsection 9 of section 4 of the Irish text,

(*b*) the subsection, the text of which is set out in *Part 2* of the *Schedule*, shall be inserted after subsection 9 of section 4 of the English text.

##### 2. Citation.

**2**.— (1) The amendment of the Constitution effected by this Act shall be called the Thirtieth Amendment of the Constitution.

(2) This Act may be cited as the Thirtieth Amendment of the Constitution (Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union) Act 2012.

## SCHEDULE

## PART 1

10 Féadfaidh an Stát an Conradh ar Chobhsaíocht, ar Chomhordú agus ar Rialachas san Aontas Eacnamaíoch agus Airgeadaíochta arna dhéanamh sa Bhruiséil an 2ú lá de Mhárta 2012 a dhaingniú. Ní dhéanann aon fhoráil atá sa Bhunreacht seo dlíthe a d’achtaigh, gníomhartha a rinne nó bearta a ghlac an Stát de bhíthin riachtanais na n-oibleagáidí atá ar an Stát faoin gConradh sin a chur ó bhail dlí ná cosc a chur le dlíthe a d’achtaigh, gníomhartha a rinne nó bearta a ghlac comhlachtaí atá inniúil faoin gConradh sin ó fheidhm dlí a bheith acu sa Stát.

## PART 2

10 The State may ratify the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union done at Brussels on the 2nd day of March 2012. No provision of this Constitution invalidates laws enacted, acts done or measures adopted by the State that are necessitated by the obligations of the State under that Treaty or prevents laws enacted, acts done or measures adopted by bodies competent under that Treaty from having the force of law in the State.
