---
title: "Health Insurance (Amendment) Act  2007"
identifier: "IE-2007-act-3"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "2007-02-22"
last_updated: "2007-02-22"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2007/act/3"
title_ga: "An tAcht Árachais Sláinte (Leasú), 2007"
long_title_ga: "Acht do leasú an Achta Árachais Sláinte 1994"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/2007/3"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Health Insurance (Amendment) Act  2007

##### 1. Definitions.

**1**.— In this Act—

“ Act of 2001 ” means the Health Insurance (Amendment) Act 2001;

“ Principal Act ” means the Health Insurance Act 1994.

##### 2. Amendment of section 12 of Principal Act.

**2**.— Section 12 (inserted by section 9 of the Act of 2001) of the Principal Act is amended—

(*a*) in subsection (2), by the substitution of the following paragraph for paragraph (*a*):

“(*a*) Subject to paragraphs (*b*) and (*c*), a scheme shall apply to—

(i) each registered undertaking, and

(ii) each undertaking that has ceased to be a registered undertaking but was a registered undertaking at any time when that scheme was in force,

and each such undertaking shall comply with the terms and conditions of the scheme.”,

and

(*b*) in subsection (10), by the insertion of the following paragraph after paragraph (*a*):

“(*aa*) In this section (other than paragraph (*a*) of subsection (2)) references to registered undertaking shall be construed as including references to an undertaking to which subparagraph (ii) of the said paragraph (*a*) applies.”.

##### 3. Amendment of section 12A of Principal Act.

**3**.— Section 12A (inserted by section 9 of the Act of 2001) of the Principal Act is amended by the substitution of the following subsection for subsection (4):

“(4) A payment due by an undertaking to the Authority under a scheme may be recovered by the Authority from the undertaking as a simple contract debt in any court of competent jurisdiction.”.

##### 4. Repeal of section 12B of Principal Act.

**4**.— Section 12B (inserted by section 10 of the Act of 2001) of the Principal Act is repealed.

##### 5. Short title and collective citation.

**5**.— (1) This Act may be cited as the Health Insurance (Amendment) Act 2007.

(2) The Health Insurance Acts 1994 to 2003 and this Act may be cited together as the Health Insurance Acts 1994 to 2007.
