---
title: "Teaching Council (Amendment) Act  2006"
identifier: "IE-2006-act-2"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "2006-03-04"
last_updated: "2006-03-04"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2006/act/2"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Chomhairle Mhúinteoireachta (Leasú), 2006"
long_title_ga: "Acht do dhéanamh forála i ndáil le hoibriú alt áirithe den Acht um Chomhairle Mhúinteoireachta 2001 agus le bailíocht agus éifeacht nithe áirithe a airbheartaítear a dhéanamh faoin Acht sin"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/2006/2"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Teaching Council (Amendment) Act  2006

##### 1 Definition.

**1.**— In this Act “Principal Act” means the Teaching Council Act 2001.

##### 2 Principal Act — operation and validity of certain provisions and acts.

**2.**— (1) Notwithstanding section 1(2) of the Principal Act, sections 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 8 to 10 of that Act (referred to subsequently in this Act as the “relevant sections”) shall be deemed to have come into operation on the 10th day of September 2004.

(2) Accordingly—

(*a*) the Teaching Council (First Election of Members) Regulations 2004 (S.I. No. 916 of 2004) shall be deemed to have been validly made and to have come into operation on the date of their purported making, namely the 10th day of September 2004, and

(*b*) (i) each of the elections and nominations mentioned in section 8 of the Principal Act purported to have been conducted or made before the passing of this Act, and

(ii) any condition precedent to the conducting of any such election or the making of any such nomination purported to have been satisfied before such passing,

shall, as respect its conducting, making or satisfaction, as the case may be, have the same validity and effect as it would have had, had an order under section 1(2) of the Principal Act been made appointing the 10th day of September 2004 as the day on which the relevant sections come into operation.

##### 3 Future exercise of certain powers not affected.

**3.**— Nothing in *section 2* prejudices the future exercise of the powers under section 1(2) of the Principal Act in relation to provisions of that Act that are not the relevant sections.

##### 4 Short title, collective citation and construction.

**4.**— (1) This Act may be cited as the Teaching Council (Amendment) Act 2006.

(2) The Principal Act and this Act may be cited together as the Teaching Council Acts 2001 and 2006 and shall be construed together as one Act.
