---
title: "Companies (Amendment) Act  2012"
identifier: "IE-2012-act-22"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "2012-07-04"
last_updated: "2012-07-04"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2012/act/22"
title_ga: "Acht na gCuideachtaí (Leasú), 2012"
long_title_ga: "Acht do leasú Acht na gCuideachtaí (Forálacha Ilghnéitheacha), 2009 chun forálacha ailt 1 agus 2 den Acht sin a leathnú, agus do dhéanamh socrú i dtaobh nithe gaolmhara"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/2012/22"
---
# Companies (Amendment) Act  2012

##### 1. Interpretation.

**1**.— In this Act, “Act of 2009” means the Companies (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 2009.

##### 2. Amendment of section 1 of Act of 2009.

**2**.— Section 1 of the Act of 2009 is amended—

(*a*) in subsection (1), by substituting the following for paragraph (*c*) of the definition of “relevant parent undertaking”:

“(*c*) which—

(i) prior to the date on which the *Companies (Amendment) Act 2012*came into operation, did not make and was not required to make an annual return to the registrar of companies to which accounts were required to have been annexed, or

(ii) on or after 23 December 2009 but prior to the date on which the *Companies (Amendment) Act 2012*came intooperation, used, in accordance with the provisions of this Act, US generally accepted accounting principles in the preparation of its Companies Act indivi-dual accounts or its Companies Act group accounts;”,

and

(*b*) by substituting the following for subsection (2):

“(2) This section applies to the accounts of a relevant parent undertaking that are prepared for such of its financial years after it is incorporated in the State as end or ends not later than 31 December 2020.”.

##### 3. Amendment of section 2 of Act of 2009.

**3**.— Section 2 of the Act of 2009 is amended—

(*a*) in paragraphs (*a*) and (*b*) of subsection (2), by substituting “a specified number of its” for “a specified number, not to exceed 4, of its first”, and

(*b*) in subsection (3)(*b*), by substituting “December 2020” for “December 2015”.

##### 4. Short title and construction.

**4**.— (1) This Act may be cited as the Companies (Amendment) Act 2012.

(2) The Companies Acts and this Act are to be read together as one.
