---
title: "Clotting Factor Concentrates and Other Biological Products Act  2012"
identifier: "IE-2012-act-8"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "2012-03-27"
last_updated: "2012-03-27"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2012/act/8"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Thiúcháin Fachtóra Téachta agus Táirgí Bitheolaíocha Eile, 2012"
long_title_ga: "Acht do dhéanamh socrú maidir le tiúcháin fachtóra téachta agus táirgí íocshláinte bitheolaíocha eile a fháil agus a chur ar fáil, lena n-áirítear ullmhóidí athchuingreacha próitéine, chun téachtadh agus neamhoird eile a chóireáil agus do dhéanamh socrú i dtaobh nithe gaolmhara"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/2012/8"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Clotting Factor Concentrates and Other Biological Products Act  2012

##### 1. St. James’s Hospital Board to procure and make available clotting factor concentrates and other biological products.

**1**.— (1) The St. James’s Hospital Board shall procure and make available clotting factor concentrates and other biological medicinal products, including recombinant protein preparations, for the purpose of treating coagulation disorders and other congenital or acquired disorders that are characterised by diminished levels of, or dysfunctional forms of, plasma proteins.

(2) Nothing in this section affects the functions of the St. James’s Hospital Board under Article 4(3) of the St. James’s Hospital Board (Establishment) Order 1971 (S.I. No. 187 of 1971).

##### 2. Preservation of certain contracts and adaption of references to Irish Blood Transfusion Service.

**2**.— Every contract, relating to the products referred to in *section 1*, made between the Irish Blood Transfusion Service or any trustee or agent thereof acting on its behalf, and any other person, which is in force immediately before the commencement of this section, shall continue in force and shall be construed and have effect as if the St. James’s Hospital Board were substituted therein for the Irish Blood Transfusion Service or, as the case may be, its trustee or agent acting on its behalf, and shall be enforceable by or against the St. James’s Hospital Board.

##### 3. Revocation.

**3**.— Paragraph *(l*) (inserted by Article 2 of the Blood Transfusion Service Board (Establishment) Order 1965 (Amendment) Order 2003 (S.I. No. 268 of 2003)) of Article 4 of the Blood Transfusion Service Board (Establishment) Order 1965 (S.I. No. 78 of 1965) is revoked.

##### 4. Short title and commencement.

**4**.— (1) This Act may be cited as the Clotting Factor Concentrates and Other Biological Products Act 2012.

(2) This Act comes into operation on such day as the Minister for Health may by order appoint.
