---
title: "Patents (Amendment) Act  2012"
identifier: "IE-2012-act-1"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "2012-02-01"
last_updated: "2012-02-01"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2012/act/1"
title_ga: "Acht na bPaitinní (Leasú), 201"
long_title_ga: "Acht do thabhairt éifeacht d'Airteagal 1 den Chomhaontú maidir le Feidhm Airteagal 65 den Choinbhinsiún chun Paitinní Eorpacha a Dheonú, a rinneadh i Londain an 17 Deireadh Fómhair 2000; do leasú Acht na bPaitinní, 1992; agus do dhéanamh socrú i dtaobh nithe gaolmhara"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/2012/1"
related_docs: "memo"
---
# Patents (Amendment) Act  2012

##### 1. Definitions.

**1**.— In this Act—

“Act of 2006” means the Patents (Amendment) Act 2006;

“Principal Act” means the Patents Act 1992.

##### 2. Amendment of section 119 of Principal Act.

**2**.— Section 119 (amended by section 29 of the Act of 2006) of the Principal Act is amended—

(*a*) in subsection (4), by the substitution of “Where” for “Subject to subsection (6), where”, and

(*b*) by the deletion of subsections (6), (7) and (8).

##### 3. Repeal of section 119A of Principal Act.

**3**.— Section 119A (inserted by section 30 of the Act of 2006) of the Principal Act is repealed.

##### 4. Amendment of section 121 of Principal Act.

**4**.— Section 121 of the Principal Act is amended, in subsection (2), by—

(*a*) the substitution of “claims of the European patent concerned” for “specification of the patent under section 119”,

(*b*) the substitution of “claims of the patent or application, as translated, confer” for “patent or application, as translated, confers”, and

(*c*) the substitution of “conferred by them” for “conferred by it”.

##### 5. Short title, collective citation and commencement.

**5**.— (1) This Act may be cited as the Patents (Amendment) Act 2012.

(2) This Act, the Act of 2006 (other than sections 37 to 50) and the Principal Act may be cited together as the Patents Acts 1992 to 2012.

(3) This Act shall come into operation on such day or days as the Minister for Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation may appoint by order or orders either generally or with reference to any particular purpose or provision and different days may be so appointed for different purposes or different provisions.
