---
title: "Wildlife (Amendment) Act  2010"
identifier: "IE-2010-act-19"
country: "ie"
rank: "act"
publication_date: "2010-07-10"
last_updated: "2018-07-18"
status: "in_force"
source: "http://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/2010/act/19"
title_ga: "An tAcht um Fhiadhúlra (Leasú), 2010"
long_title_ga: "Acht do leasú an Achta um Fhiadhúlra 1976; agus do dhéanamh socrú i dtaobh nithe gaolmhara"
oireachtas_uri: "https://data.oireachtas.ie/ie/oireachtas/act/2010/19"
---
##### 1.. **Definitions.**

**1**.— In this Act—

“Act of 2000” means the Wildlife (Amendment) Act 2000;

“ Principal Act” means the Wildlife Act 1976.

##### 2.. **Repeal of section 26(1) of Principal Act.**

**2**.— Subsection (1) of section 26 (amended by section 35 of the Act of 2000) of the Principal Act is repealed.

##### 3.. **Prohibition on deer hunting with dogs.**

**3**.— The Principal Act is amended by the insertion of the following new section after section 23:

“23A.— (1) In this section ‘deer’ includes a deer that is not a wild animal.

(2) Subject to subsection (3), a person who hunts deer with two or more dogs shall be guilty of an offence.

(3) It shall not be an offence for a person on foot to hunt deer with 2 or more dogs, under and in accordance with—

(*a*) a licence granted under section 29 of this Act, or

(*b*) a permission granted under section 42 of this Act.”.

##### 4.. **Amendment of section 29 of Principal Act.**

**4**.— Section 29 (as substituted by section 4 of the Firearms (Firearm Certificates for Non-Residents) Act 2000) of the Principal Act is amended—

(*a*) in subsection (5)(*a*), by substituting “Subject to subsection (5A), where” for “Where”, and

(*b*) by inserting the following subsection after subsection (5):

“(5A) (*a*) A firearm certificate to which this subsection applies shall for the purposes of sections 22(4) and 23(5) of this Act be deemed to be a licence granted by the Minister under this section and, subject to section 75(1) and to the restrictions contained in section 33 of this Act, such certificate shall, for so long as it is in force, operate to authorise the person to whom it is granted, with the firearm to which the certificate relates, to engage in the activities referred to in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of subsection (5)(*a*).

(*b*) This subsection applies to a firearm certificate that is granted—

(i) in respect of a shot-gun, and

(ii) on or after 1 August 2009 but before1 August 2012.”.

##### 5.. **Amendment of section 44 of Principal Act.**

**5**.— Section 44(2) of the Principal Act is amended—

(*a*) in paragraph (*c*), by substituting “subsection (5) or (5A) of section 29” for “section 29(5)”,

(*b*) by deleting “either”, and

(*c*) by inserting “, a current firearm certificate to which subsection (5A) of that section applies” after “the said section 29”.

##### 6.. **Amendment of section 72 of Principal Act.**

**6**.— Section 72 of the Principal Act is amended in paragraph (*b*) of subsection (2) (as substituted by section 65 of the Wildlife (Amendment) Act 2000), by substituting “subsection (5) or (5A) of section 29” for “section 29(5)”.

##### 7.. **Amendment of section 74 (penalties) of Principal Act.**

**7**.—F1[…]

##### 8.. **Amendment of section 75 of Principal Act.**

**8**.— Section 75 of the Principal Act is amended in paragraph (*a*) of subsection (1), by substituting “subsection (5) or (5A) of section 29” for “section 29(5)”.

##### 9.. **Short title and collective citation.**

**9**.— (1) This Act may be cited as the Wildlife (Amendment) Act 2010.

(2) The Wildlife Acts 1976 and 2000 and this Act may be cited together as the Wildlife Acts 1976 to 2010.

